Data Point ID	Adjudicated	Label	Text
1	adjudicated	4	Bay Area cities are preparing for a fight against increased immigration enforcement ordered by President Donald Trump on Wednesday. Hundreds of people rallied in Martinez and San Francisco calling for the protection of immigrants' rights.  About an hour after President Donald Trump signed the executive orders, about 100 people protested in front of San Francisco's City Hall.  "I have a message for the bully in chief. We will fight you in the streets, we will fight you in the courts, we will fight you in our workplace, we will fight you on legislative floors, we will fight you in our churches, we will fight you in our neighborhoods, we will fight you in our union halls. You better be ready for a fight because we are protecting our sanctuary city and our immigrant communities by any means necessary," said San Francisco Supervisor Hillary Ronen.  Saira Hussain, an attorney with the Asian Law Caucus, said that the president is going to have a legal battle on his hands.  "These immigration holds are not backed by a judicial authorization," she said. "They violate the Fourth Amendment of the Constitution, and soon after we passed that law, federal courts found immigration holds to be unconstitutional."  Nancy Ybarra, 27, of Richmond protested the Contra Costa County Sheriff's Office policy of cooperating with federal immigration agents by calling immigrants on probation in for meetings, then handing them over to federal custody. "We're asking them to stop collaborating with ICE ," she said. "What we really want is for people to be protected, regardless of if they're undocumented or not." Nancy Ybarra, 27, of Richmond, protested Wednesday in Martinez. "We're asking them to stop collaborating with ICE," she said. "What we really want is for people to be protected, regardless of if they're undocumented or not." (Bert Johnson/KQED) Other advocates argued that Trump's policies make the country less secure because they cause a rift between law enforcement and local communities.  "The safety of people in my community is now at risk, and the already fractured relationship between law enforcement and communities like mine is about to get worse," said the Rev. Richard Smith, vicar of the Episcopal Church of St. John the Evangelist in the Mission.  Mayors from Oakland, San Francisco, San Jose and Berkeley issued a joint statement proclaiming their commitment to sanctuary policies.  In Martinez, a coalition of local groups held a previously planned rally to demand that the sheriff stop using probation meetings to deport immigrants. A report in the East Bay Express found that the Contra Costa County Sheriff’s Office staff would call immigrants serving probation in for administrative meetings, where Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents would be ready to arrest them and begin deportation proceedings.  Advocates say that violates California’s Trust Act, which shields law enforcement from complying with ICE requests to hold someone until an agent can arrive.  Juan José Lozano Hernandez, of Richmond, attended a protest at the Contra Costa Administrative Building in Martinez on Wednesday, Jan. 25, 2017. The demonstration was organized by the Contra Costa County Racial Justice Coalition (CCCRJC) and the Alliance of Californians for Community Empowerment (ACCE) to demand that the Sheriff's Office stop cooperating with federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). "We are here so the county police are not allied with ICE," he said in Spanish. Juan José Lozano Hernandez, of Richmond, attended a protest at the Contra Costa County Administrative Building. "We are here so the county police are not allied with ICE," he said in Spanish. (Bert Johnson/KQED) Melvin Willis, a newly elected member of the Richmond City Council, was at the Martinez rally, alongside organizers from Contra Costa County Racial Justice Coalition and Alliance of Californians for Community Empowerment.  “They actively have a contract with ICE,” he said. “They were ambushing people who were undocumented in Contra Costa County.”  Sheriff David Livingston told protesters that he will follow the law. If ICE asks him to hold someone, the answer is no, he said.  "However, if they make a request that we notify them when an inmate is going to be released, we comply with that part of the order," he said. "They are free to talk to an immigrant only when they are being released — only when they are being released — we won’t detain them a minute longer."  Candelaria Martinez, 49, of Richmond, said she wants to see the sheriff respect immigrants.  “It’s sad to see people get deported,” she said in Spanish. “We only want them to respect us.”  Alex Emslie, Lisa Pickoff-White and Julie Small contributed to this report.
2	adjudicated	1	In major cities and tiny towns, thousands of marchers gathered across America, moved by accounts of children separated from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border, in the latest act of mass resistance against President Donald Trump's immigration policies.  Here in Fresno, about a thousand people rallied together for today's "Families Belong Together" protest.  The protest is on the southeast corner of Blackstone and Nees.
3	adjudicated	3	College Station, TX - White supremacist Richard Spencer was meet by more than 1000 protesters when he came to Texas A&M University, Dec. 6. He was not invited by the university, but rented the space to hold his event. While the university claimed it was "concerned," it made no effort to cancel the event and provided very tight security for him.  The protest began with a few hundred students, but quickly grew into over 1000. Students were very angry that the university was allowing this racist to use their facilities. Some students also attended Spencer’s event and tried to disrupt it, but were confronted by a fascist and escorted out of the building by the police.  The protest began outside with speeches and students chanting "No Spencer, no KKK, no racist USA," and "No platform for fascists!" After about an hour, one of the student leaders called upon the students to enter the building and shut down Spencer's event.  The students marched into the building chanting "Power to the power," and holding clenched fists. As they marched to the room where Spencer was speaking on the second floor, over 50 riot police in full gear showed up to defend the door. The police created a blockade and started pushing protesters back. They hit protesters with their batons, and one woman who was struck fainted.  The protesters locked arms and tried to push through the swarm of riot police, chanting "Cops and Klan go hand in hand," and "Who do you protect, who do you serve?"  Bryan X, a student at Texas Southern University and a Black Panther, gave a speech saying, "It is obvious which side of white supremacy the blue line stands for. They defend white supremacists like Richard Spencer so that he can spread his message of hate, while hitting us over the heads with batons. We must stand united and resist these pigs!"  The cops tried to break up the crowd, but they continued to resist. After about 20 minutes, the police started charging and came in from all corners and surrounded the protesters. They arrested two people who got caught in the police cage. They forced everyone out of the building and all sides were surrounded by a mass of riot police in full gear, cops on horseback, as well as university police.  The students continued to protest outside, when a small group of Nazis showed up. The hundreds of students that were still in attendance rushed over shouting, "Nazis go home!" and "Hey hey, ho ho, these Nazis have got to go!" They surrounded the Nazis, and the police attempted to interfere. The crowd was too large for the cops to get in, and the students forced the Nazis off campus.  Michael Leone, a member of Students for a Democratic Society and student at the University of Houston, said, “The counter-protest was enormously successful. Many students have been woken up by the alarm bells of the fascist surge and now, because we came together as a community to display solidarity and resistance to this imminent threat. Many students who yesterday were passively supportive are today actively engaged.”  David Smith of Houston Socialist Movement said, “The demonstration against Richard Spencer at Texas A&M University was historic. The action was massive, diverse and expressly anti-fascist. It was wonderful to see activists and students unite in militant opposition to any platform for neo-Nazis.”  Amy Zachmeyer of the Democratic Socialists of America said, "I congratulate all of the protesters from last night's anti-fascist event on making their voices heard and choosing to fight oppression and hatred. People who have never been politically active before are waking up to realize that in these times they must pick a side, and they are choosing diversity over divisiveness. It was also clear that the fight against fascism has already begun, and is going to be led by a united left."  The protest was organized by the Houston Socialist Movement, Students for a Democratic Society, Democratic Socialists of America, FIEL, LITE, and the Latin American Organization for Immigrant Rights.
4	adjudicated	4	Hundreds of students, faculty and Manhattan residents braved freezing temperatures Wednesday evening to attend the MHK Solidarity Rally, which later turned into a march on Anderson Avenue, in Bosco Student Plaza in protest of President Donald Trump’s executive order that limits immigration from certain Middle Eastern countries.  At the rally, Marjan Habibi, graduate student in economics from Iran, said she is not able to see her husband under the immigration restrictions.  “My husband is in Iran, so I cannot go to see him, and he cannot come to see me,” Habibi said. “I hope that President Trump actually just makes an exception for students. We’re only students, we’re not terrorists. Not all of us immigrants are terrorists.”  Lisa Tatonetti, English professor and one of the rally’s organizers, led participants in several chants, such as “K-State won’t hate” and “no ban, no wall; Manhattan, Kansas, welcomes all.”  Related: K-State student forced to drop classes due to Trump travel ban Read Now   Tatonetti also introduced speakers at the rally, which included representatives from several multicultural student organizations, including the Indigenous Alliance, the American Ethnic Studies Student Association and the Universalist Unitarian Church. The Rev. Jonalu Johnstone, minister at the Universalist Unitarian Church, asked rally attendees what democracy looked like.  “I know that democracy is chaotic and wild,” Johnstone said. “I know that democracy strives to navigate the difficult form between majority opinion, and minority rights… Today, Muslim brothers and sisters, we are here for you. Tomorrow, we are here for whoever is next at risk… we have each others’ backs.”  LaVerne Bitsie-Baldwin, director of the College of Engineering Multicultural Engineering Program and co-chair of the Indigenous Alliance, said the alliance stands with all immigrants and refugees.  “Today, we stand in solidarity with the K-State community,” Bitsie-Baldwin said. “For over 500 years, the indigenous peoples have taken in outsiders and refugees from all around the world. We have accepted a multitude of individuals and beliefs, and we are here in solidarity with our Muslim allies.”  April Petillo, assistant professor of American ethnic studies, particularly spoke against Trump’s executive order.  “The executive order issued by Trump on Jan. 27, protecting the nation from foreign terrorist entry into the nation, does not protect nor does it ensure safety,” Petillo said. “Instead, it preys on fears, it directs anger and it effectively does us all harm.”  “When we buy into these ideas, we show that we do not know these histories,” Petillo said. “If we are really against terrorism in all its forms, we stand for migration. We stand for each other, and we stand against this order.”  Other speakers urged action.  “We really need to take that anger and turn it into action,” Alonso Pena, junior in English and American ethnic studies and president of the American Ethnic Studies Association, said. “I really appreciate that we’re all here. We need to keep breaking the silences.”  Dan Cutter, instructor of public speaking, said Trump’s immigration executive order and other political actions should anger American citizens.  “Mere hours after the CEO of Exxon Mobil was confirmed as Secretary of State today, hours after the House removed a restriction that required oil companies to disclose payments to foreign governments, what we are witnessing is the rise of fascism in the United States,” Cutter said. “We have always been told that this cannot happen here, that America is exceptional, that we are immune to this disease, but it is happening now.”  “We can no longer idly stand by while we allow this to happen,” Cutter continued. “Every single day, we must find ways to advocate and to resist against this regime. It does not stop with just advocating against the Muslim ban, or the wall, or any number of other things. We must advocate against all of it and fight every single day.”  Lisa Hamer, local attorney and public defender, said any change has to start locally.  “In 2010, the Tea Party did something amazing, as much as we might have hated it,” Hamer said. “They started local, and we need to do that here. You are K-State students who walk on Manhattan streets, you eat and drink in Manhattan’s restaurants and bars—let’s face it, you owe us quite a bit.  Related: Activist Angela Davis calls for unification in light of racial discrimination Read Now   “It would be really nice if you showed up for things like city commission meetings, county commission elections, and if you voted locally whenever you could, because there is not just injustice in Washington, D.C.,” Hamer continued. “There is injustice in Junction City, 20 miles down the road. There is racism happening right here in your town, if you just pay attention.” Sajid Rahman, graduate student in computer science and president of the Muslim Students Association, thanked rally attendees for their support.  “On behalf of the (Muslim Students Association), I would like to offer all of you my heartfelt thanks to stand here in support of us in this cold weather,” Rahman said. “There have been some negative impacts, but I would like to share some positive experiences. From the beginning of the executive order, we’ve received hundreds of messages and emails on Facebook and social media from all around the Manhattan community. They want to show their support, they want to stand next to us”  After the speakers addressed the crowd for about a half hour, Tatonetti led protesters on a march along Anderson Avenue to the south of the parking garage, and the march blocked the entrance to Mid-Campus Drive for about 15 minutes.  Passing cars honked at protesters, but it was not clear whether the drivers honked in solidarity with the protest.  Although the rally initially began as a demonstration of solidarity with Muslim students and community members affected by the immigration ban, the marching protesters began to yell chants such as “black lives matter” and “sí se puede.”  Most of the protesters later moved towards the Union for a lecture by Angela Davis, political activist and keynote speaker for the Black Student Union’s celebration of Black History Month.  After the rally, Cynthia Ferguson, sophomore in computer science and speaker at the rally, said  “I’m here today because I firmly believe in brotherhood, friendship and most importantly, I don’t like division at all,” Ferguson said. “I feel like everything that has been going on with Trump’s executive order is dividing our country. It’s racist, it’s fascist, it’s against our Muslim brothers and I felt the need to speak on it.”  Other attendees said they hoped the rally inspired people to affect change.  “Through media and other people, we can get the word out that there’s people here supporting immigrants,” Rachel Whetstone, Manhattan resident, said. “The rally also helps people know how to get in contact with their congress people, and that we need to do it by telephone, because other means don’t work as well.”  Zelia Wiley, interim associate provost for diversity, said the rally will increase awareness.  “I think that one thing here at K-State is that we need to get people aware of what’s going on, because so many people feel like everything is OK,” Wiley said. “This rally showed people that something must be going on. It’s going to cause people that don’t know about these issues to ask questions.”
5	adjudicated	4	HELENA — Nearly 200 people braved bone-rattling cold Friday in a grass-roots protest of President Donald Trump’s executive order banning entry into the United States by citizens from seven predominantly Muslim countries.  The rally, held on Last Chance Gulch, was held in single-digit chill as the ban faces legal challenges nationwide. It sparked large protests last week in several major U.S. cities.  On Friday, U.S. District Judge James Robart of Seattle issued a nationwide restraining order blocking the travel ban, KOMO news reported.  Annie Hanshew organized the Montana for Immigrants event with the help of friends.  “We are just normal everyday folks upset with what President Trump did,” she said.  People gathered on Last Chance Gulch on Friday for a Helena rally opposing President Donald Trump’s recent executive order. People gathered around the yellow trolley in front of the Windbag Saloon and Grill, some clutching signs that read: “I love my Muslim neighbor” and “We the people are greater than fear.”  Judy Hart of Helena said she was there “Because I believe in our open policy.”  Hart said the country already vets immigrants.  “The ban is against what we stand for,” she said. “I don’t know what more we can do.”   John Driscoll of Helena said he was there “Because it’s time to say the emperor has no clothes.”  He called Trump a “fool.”  Katherine Haque-Hausrath said came to the rally to make a statement.  “We’re standing up against bigotry and the incompetence of the executive order last week,” she said. “People will die because of this ban.  “We are sending a message to our elected representatives we are watching them. Immigrants are an important part of our state,” Haque-Hausrath said.  Alex Street brought his bundled-up son, Jack, 4, to the rally.  “I’m an immigrant,” Street, who is from England, said as he then pointed to his son. “He is a second generation immigrant. Immigration is good for our country.”  Rachel Carroll Rivas, co-director of the Montana Human Rights Network, encouraged the crowd to contact U.S. Sens. Jon Tester and Steve Daines.  Grace Johnson holds 3-month old Ziva Grossmann during Friday’s rally opposing President Donald Trump's recent travel ban. She also told them to support local organizations such as the MHRN and the ACLU of Montana.  Hanshew said afterward the turnout was bigger than expected.  “We thought it was going to be a group of our friends, but it spread like wildfire on Facebook,” she said. “It speaks well of the Helena community.  “It was a good turnout for something around zero (degrees),” she said.   Hanshew, a historian, said the event was not only a protest, but it was also an appreciation of immigrants.  “Montana is made up of immigrant stories and I wanted to celebrate that,” she said.  “It was sweet, simple message,” she said.  Hanshew said her group is also monitoring a proposed bill now working its way through the state Legislature which prevents state judges from applying foreign laws in their courtrooms. Some people have labeled the law as anti-Muslim.
6	adjudicated	3	More than 100 protesters on Friday evening chanted, drummed and danced out their vehement opposition to President Donald Trump's immigration policies during a loud but peaceful protest stationed outside the Galleria.  Toting "Resist Trump" and "Black Lives Matter" signs, the growing crowd chanted "hands too small, can't build a wall" and rapped out anti-Trump chants inspired by the rapper Ludacris, even as a strong police presence monitored the pre-Super Bowl protest  from nearby.  The diverse protest coalition included members of the Houston Socialist Movement, #FightFor15 supporters, a handful of anarchists, representatives from Familias Inmigrantes y Estudiantes en the Lucha and a slew of other activist groups speaking out against Trump's plans to build a southern border wall and his controversial move to ban immigrants from seven majority Muslim countries.  "We're the ones who contributed to America. We're the ones who built America," said Isaias Sapon," a Guatemalan immigrant who moved stateside in 1990.  Between speakers, the enthusiastic crowd broke out into chants, shouting, "From Palestine to Mexico, border walls have got to go," and the ever-popular, "No Trump, no KKK, no fascist USA."  Cesar Espinosa, a self-identified undocumented immigrant, revved up the crowd with a talk about solidarity laden with references to historically significant activism of decades past.  "During the Cesar Chavez movement, during the farm workers' movement, the Filipinos would stand with the Mexicans and they would say, 'If they come for one of us, they come for all of us,'" he told the crowd.  "So today we stand here in solidarity with our brothers and sisters from all over the world and we say if they come for one of ya'll, they will come for all of us because we are here and we are here to resist."  Toward the end of the Houston rally, the protesters got part of what they wanted when a federal judge in Seattle put a nationwide halt to the divisive travel ban.  A Muslim son of Middle Eastern immigrants, Sayed Jamal Hamideh, helped organized the gathering at the intersection of Westheimer and Post Oak.  The 23-year-old University of Houston graduate said his father initially moved to the U.S. on a student visa. He started out cleaning Pizza Hut parking lots and worked his way into owning IHOP restaurants that employ more than 500 workers.  "He's my version of the American Dream," Hamideh said. "Immigrants are the best of us."  Although the raucous rally stayed peaceful, some advocated for more forceful actions in the future.  "We're becoming basically a Nazi, white, fascist America," said protest regular Erik McClaskey, who covered his face with a black bandanna in response to what he described as "police profiling."  "It'd be awesome if we could have a peaceful revolution but how many peaceful revolutions have you seen in history?"  The small Friday action was just the first in what's expected to be a busy weekend of protests.  On Saturday, a crowd is set gather at City Hall for a 3 p.m. protest, while the following day a march from Hermann Park will kick off around noon and an #OccupyTheSuperBowl rally will start at NRG Park at 2 p.m.
7	adjudicated	1	What began as Grass Valley’s voice in the nationwide ‘Families Belong Together’ rally, quickly turned into an opportunity for a contingent of counter protesters to take to the streets opposite the large crowd with signs reading ‘Build the wall’, and ‘Deport Families Together’ Saturday at the intersection of Brunswick Road and Sutton Way in the Glenbrook Basin.   While the majority of the protest and counterprotest remained civil, there were tense moments where members of each faction stood face to face as they exchanged words with each other.  Motorists at the intersection responded by honking their horns, popping wheelies on their motorcycles, flipping the bird, or screaming ‘build the wall’,  More than 650 events across the United States took place Saturday morning with the common theme to reverse the Trump administration’s separation of families seeking to enter the U.S.
8	adjudicated	4	While Martín Esquivel-Hernández could not speak to his supporters directly in Pittsburgh, his words were still heard.  Esquivel-Hernández, a former Pittsburgh resident who had been in prison for nine months on charges related to undocumented immigration, was deported Tuesday.   At a protest Tuesday night in his honor, Christina Castillo, an organizer with the Thomas Merton Center, read aloud one of Esquivel-Hernández’s letters written from prison.  “Despite never having met every single one of you, please believe me when I say how grateful and in debt I am to all of you,” Esquivel-Hernández wrote. “There will never be enough magic words to thank you all for the moral support and the love you give me as human beings.”  Castillo was one of about 100 people who gathered at the corner of Hot Metal and South Water Streets Tuesday night to protest the deportation of Esquivel-Hernández. The event, hosted by the Thomas Merton Center — an organization dedicated to social justice activism — included speeches on the lawn, followed by an attempt to march onto Hot Metal Bridge. Before they could march, Pittsburgh police guided protesters back to the lawn so that they would not block the intersection and halt traffic flow.  “No more deportation,” rang through the streets as a few cars passed the crowd, honking to show their support.  Esquivel-Hernández had spent the past nine months at the Seneca County Jail in Ohio after failing to present a valid U.S. driver’s license and was caught attempting to cross the Mexican border into the U.S. on four separate occasions between November 2011 and May 2012. Ultimately, he was detected in summer of 2016.  The angry protesters shouted, “Shame!” during mentions of the office of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the federal agency that chose to deport Esquivel-Hernández.  Some protesters held up signs including phrases such as “No borders, No nations, Stop the Deportation,” “Dignity, Not Deportation” and “You would do the same for your family.”  Faith, community and labor leaders also showed their support throughout the last few months in an effort to keep him in the country, including Mayor Bill Peduto, Congressman Mike Doyle and Roman Catholic Bishop David Zubik.  The protest was peaceful yet emotional as the participants gathered in a large circle holding signs, flowers and candles. Esquivel-Hernández’s family was also present, specifically his wife, Alma Brigido, and their two daughters, Shayla, 11, and Luz, 9. Alma read a passionate letter to the crowd, which was in Spanish, while a translator relayed her words of hope to everyone in attendance.  ”ICE is successful in dividing us, but they can never separate our souls and our hearts,” Brigido said. “Even though he is in another place, we’re going to keep fighting, because they cannot separate us from accomplishing our dreams and our goals.”  The deportation case was under the jurisdiction of ICE Field Office Director Rebecca Adducci, whose office received an influx of calls and letters from 1,400 people in support of not deporting the man.  In addition to the people who sent in letters voicing opposition to the situation, other protesters joined in on the message to speak about the great injustice of deportation.  While some speakers focused on how “immigration is a natural thing,” others pointed out that America is a country made up of immigrants. One supporter sang in Spanish and played her cello, accompanied by a saxophone player.  Kai Pang, 22, of Bloomfield, and an organizer with Pittsburgh United—a coalition of community organizations who work to improve Pittsburgh communities through policy campaigns—joined this particular movement because he sees immigration issues as workers’ issues. He noted that while deportations have been ongoing, the current political climate is also a contributing factor to the growing support of deportation.  “Deportations are nothing new, and I think the rhetoric under this new administration has definitely emboldened ICE as an institution to further go about their policies without any sort of retribution,” Pang said.  Pang also said that deportation stories have “always been there,” but that now, stories such as Esquivel-Hernández’s are more often brought to light with protests and public outrage.  Part of this public outrage comes in response to President Donald Trump’s latest actions. On January 27, Trump signed an executive order that banned entry from seven countries that are heavily populated with Muslims: Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen.  Esquivel-Hernández’s event, then, was just the second in a pair of Pittsburgh immigration protests in the past week. Some Pittsburghers fought Trump’s order on Jan. 30 by taking to the Pittsburgh International Airport and protesting.  While the rally at the airport enforced the idea of solidarity, Tuesday night’s protest ended on a somber note. Sister Janice Vanderneck — a director of Casa San Jose who works closely with Latino immigrants in Pittsburgh. — left the rally with a parting message about immigration rights, not just for people in Pittsburgh, but for everyone in the nation.  “We need to do all we can to keep this from happening in our nation,” she said. “I know we are together. It’s so helpful to see you all here.”
9	adjudicated	3	PHOENIX — For the past four years, federal immigration authorities have given Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos a pass to remain in the U.S. rather than deport her back to Mexico.   Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos (center, at microphones) on Feb. 8, 2017, addresses supporters who gathered outside the Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in central Phoenix, where she would later learn that she was being deported. But that changed Wednesday, when Garcia de Rayos went to check in as usual at the central Phoenix offices of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Instead of being released, she was taken into custody, while her husband, two children — both U.S.-born citizens — and a group of supporters watched in tears.  And by Wednesday night, her case had become the new epicenter of the debate over immigration enforcement, as protesters surrounded the ICE office on North Central Avenue in an attempt to block buses from taking her away. Garcia de Rayos apparently was in one of those vehicles, which are used to transport people in ICE custody to detention centers, or to the border for deportation.  Her family and supporters fear Garcia de Rayos, 36, may now be deported quickly to Mexico. That, they say, would make her among the first casualties under a shift in policy by ICE under President Trump.  After 9 p.m., police officers amassed on the south side of the facility as protesters continued to block access, chanting "Justice!" and "Power to the people, no one is illegal!"   The effort was organized by Puente Arizona, the same group that was known for blocking roads surrounding a Donald Trump campaign rally in Fountain Hills last year.  The Wednesday night scene remained peaceful past 10 p.m. MT, as most in the crowd complied with police requests to stay off the street. Police, in riot gear, stood by.  But as some protesters continued to block vehicles, several people were taken into custody. Phoenix police Sgt. Jonathan Howard said seven people were arrested, all peacefully.   Maria Castro, 23, was in the crowd. "Lupita was a victim of Arpaio's raids," she said, "and now she is a victim of Trump 's deportation machine."  The raids, from years ago, may be the connection to Trump's orders this year.  Syrian refugee family, seeking new life, arrives in Milwaukee  In one of his first acts in office, Trump signed an executive order on Jan. 25 instructing immigration authorities to ramp up deportations, in part by broadening priorities to include undocumented immigrants convicted of any crimes or charged with any crimes.  Trump's order is a major departure from former president Barack Obama's deportation priorities, which focused primarily on deporting undocumented immigrants convicted of serious crimes and allowing those with long ties to the U.S. and no significant criminal background to remain in the U.S.  In a statement, ICE officials said only that Garcia de Rayos was detained because of her prior conviction, which stems from a work-site raid almost a decade ago. They did not comment on whether they diverged from the previous check-in specifically because of the recent executive order.   "It has 100% to do with the executive order," said Ray Ybarra-Maldonado, a Phoenix immigration lawyer who is representing Garcia de Rayos. "Her case is no different than the last time she checked in. The facts are 100% the same. The only difference is the priorities for removal have now changed."  Supporters of Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos comfort each other after learning she would be deported by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement in Phoenix on Feb. 8, 2017. Jessica Vaughan, policy studies director at the Center for Immigration Studies, a group that supports Trump's immigration crackdowns, agreed.  "It could very well be," Vaughan said. "There were so many people exempt under the Obama administration's deportation scheme so it would not surprise me at all" that ICE taking Garcia de Rayos into custody is a result of "the scrapping of that scheme in favor of the Trump administration's executive order, which returns a great deal of discretion to ICE officers in the field to enforce immigration laws as they were written."  Get the Everyone's Talking newsletter in your inbox. Get caught up with the trending news you need to know  Delivery: Mon - Fri Your Email In anticipation that Garcia de Rayos could be taken into custody, the group Puente Arizona organized a rally outside the Central Avenue offices of ICE. The group advocates to stop the deportation of undocumented immigrants.  As Garcia de Rayos walked through the gates towards the building, some supporters yelled out in Spanish, "We are with you, Lupe." Others locked arms, while some cars honked as they drove past.  U Visa data give glimpse into local law enforcement-immigrant relationship  "To me this is an injustice," said Garcia's 14-year-old daughter, Jaqueline Rayos Garcia, standing outside the building in tears. "She has always worked to give us a good education."  Vaughan, however, disagreed that it would be unfair to deport Garcia de Rayos. She said Garcia de Rayos should not be allowed to stay if she has no legal standing to remain despite her long ties.  "I don't think it would be unfair, no," she said. "I think it would be unfair to all the other legal immigrants who qualify and go through the process, if she were allowed to stay, just because she has been here a long time."  Carlos Garcia, the director of Puente, said he believes ICE's decision to take Garcia de Rayos into custody will spur other undocumented immigrants who have been released on supervision to stop checking in and go into hiding.   "Most definitely, if what’s going to happen when people come to check in they are going to get detained and deported, I would assume most people will not turn themselves in," he said.  In a written statement, ICE officials confirmed that Garcia de Rayos had been detained based on a prior removal order issued by the Department of Justice's Executive Office for Immigration Review. The order became final in May 2013.  Federal appeals court skeptical of Trump's travel ban  "Relevant databases indicate Ms. Garcia De Rayos has a prior felony conviction dating from March 2009 for criminal impersonation,” the statement said.  The felony conviction stems from a 2008 work-site raid by the Maricopa County Sheriff's Office, said attorney Ybarra-Maldonado.  He said Garcia de Rayos came to the U.S. in 1996, when she was 14.   In 2008, she was swept up in one of former Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio's work-site raids targeting the Golfland Entertainment Centers, which operated several water and mini-golf parks. Sheriff's deputies seized hundreds of employment records and later arrested Garcia de Rayos at her house in Mesa. She pleaded guilty to a charge of criminal impersonation, a Class 6 felony, the lowest level.  As a result of the charge, Garcia de Rayos was then turned over to ICE, Ybarra-Maldonado said. She spent six months in ICE custody at the Eloy Detention Center, he said.  In 2013, an immigration judge found Garcia de Rayos had no legal stance to remain in the U.S. and issued a voluntary departure instructing her to leave the country, Ybarra-Maldonado said.  After Garcia de Rayos appealed the voluntary departure, ICE gave her an order of supervision instructing her to check in yearly, and then every six months, Ybarra-Maldonado said.  Garcia de Rayos was scheduled for her six month check-in Wednesday but instead of being told to come back in six months, she was taken into custody, he said.  Ybarra-Maldonado immediately filed documents asking ICE to stay her deportation, on the grounds that she has lived in the U.S. since she was 14, has two children who are U.S. citizens, and she is fighting to have her felony conviction thrown out on the grounds that Arpaio's work-site raids were unconstitutional.  About 100 people gathered outside the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in central Phoenix in support of Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos on Feb. 8, 2017. He also pointed out that she had been just a few months too old to apply for Obama's Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program granting deportation deferments and work permits to undocumented immigrants brought to the U.S. as children. Her felony conviction, though, most likely would have disqualified her from that program.  "She's built a great life for herself and her children, and her kids want her to be home at night. Her kids want her to take them to school, to be at the parent-teacher conference, to see them go to prom, and to see them graduate, and more than anything she deserves to live a life she has built."  Contributing: William Everett and Johana Restrepo, The Arizona Republic. Follow Daniel González and Brianna Bradley on Twitter: @azdangonzlez and @Bri_BradleyPHX   
10	adjudicated	1	On Thursday, February 9th, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) raids surged in central Texas detaining more than 50 people. That morning several people had been picked up and ICE agents visited schools and workplaces. Detainees were held at the JJ Pickle Federal Building downtown. There were two gatherings at the federal building. A vigil was held the evening of the 9th and on the morning of the 10th, a small demonstration. On the tenth, a video circulated of a man kneeling, handcuffed, in front of a Whataburger at the corner near Lamar and Rundberg in far North Austin. Friday evening, a member of a local copwatch organization called for a demonstration on the corner of Lamar and Rundberg, creating the space for some of the highest intensity struggle in Austin, TX in a decade.  The demonstrations the weekend following the ICE raids revealed a hostility to the law and the new regime that is unlikely to disappear. Activists and city government have bemoaned the interference of the raids, as these shake up already present tensions in the city and frustrate the efforts made by local law enforcement to build trust with some of the neighborhood’s inhabitants and make the area more hospitable to developers.    Local and state immigration politics have fostered this moment, leveraging splits within the state. For many years, immigrant’s rights organizations, NGOs, and churches struggled unsuccessfully to pressure former Sheriff Greg Hamilton to discontinue their relationship with ICE, holding detainees in the county jail for transfer to detention centers and eventual deportation. When Sally Hernandez took the Sheriff’s office in January of 2017, the policy changed. The jail would only hold people charged with “very serious crimes”. In fact, after the policy change, dozens of people were released.  The Austin Police Department never developed a policy of non-cooperation, despite pressure. Art Acevedo, former chief of police wrote an article criticizing the cooperation program, Secure Communities, for threatening the city’s community policing model. This criticism did not stop Acevedo from interviewing to become the head of ICE in 2014. APD officers were still allowed to ask for immigration status but supposedly would not make an arrest on that basis alone.  Though immigrants rights groups point out that city and county resources are still being used to aid ICE, Travis County and Austin became known as Sanctuary communities. Hernandez in particular has become a target of ire. Governor Greg Abbot has personally threatened her position and state legislation was quickly introduced to force cooperation of local law enforcement and ICE. Hundreds of people signed up at a Senate committee meeting to speak against Senate Bill 4 and many stayed through the day and into the night. Regardless, it was passed out of committee and will be up for a vote and consideration by the Texas House of Representatives in the coming months. When the raids began on Thursday, February 9th, there was a sense that Travis County was being punished for the actions of Hernandez.   Riot police arrive on the scene at the Rundberg Rebellion The raids have already had a poor effect on public perception of APD. The department has made multiple public statements declaring that they are not participating in the arrests, but served as security forces for ICE agents, aiding in the smooth operation of the raids. A news story emerged on February 9th of an ICE agent being sent to the hospital after the family resisted a person being detained. In follow up articles, the family denies that there was a conflict. An APD officer who was called in said the family “got out of hand.” The two women ended up being arrested on prior warrants by APD. In a separate incident a man was charged with assaulting an ICE officer during his detention.  Rundberg is home to a poor, diverse, and dense population. In a city study of the area in 2012, it was recorded that 95% of the children enrolled in school were “economically disadvantaged”. 64% spoke languages other than English and a large percentage of those were classified as refugees. Its major thoroughfares have sprawling strip malls and parking lots, surrounded by apartments and rented houses. In 2008, while only 5.5% of properties have a multifamily use, 60% of the population lived in multifamily developments.  Also noted in the city survey: Rundberg zip codes had the among the lowest levels of trust in police.  Google the intersection “Lamar and Rundberg” before February 10th 2017 and most of what you will find is news about drugs, prostitution, and other crime as well as efforts to “clean up” the neighborhood. News stories are shock pieces are about SWAT raids, drug busts, and hotel stakeouts; in addition to these harder forms of policing the area has become known as the staging ground for a “softer” police project: Restore Rundberg.  Restore Rundberg’s community policing program put the police front and center of an effort to make the area ready for gentrification and development by driving down the crime rate. In addition to block walking and hosting public forums, the police focused on several “hot spots” in the neighborhood and coordinated with the city code department to cite run-down properties and haul away illegally parked vehicles. This is Austin’s version of broken windows policing, a nationally notorious policy known for preparing neighborhoods for displacement and gentrification.  On January 22nd of 2016, Monica Loera became the first known trans woman to be killed in the US that year, an incident which drew further attention as she was callously misgendered in the media. Loera, also a sex worker, was shot in front of her Rundberg home, likely by a john. In the aftermath, many liberal activists and city politicians mourned her death, never mentioning that she was exactly the type of person that the Restore Rundberg project plans to remove from the area. In 2016 funding for the Department of Justice funded Restore Rundberg Project lapsed and it is unclear if the job is finished or what will take its place.  As the weekend progressed more and more reports of raids came in. Many, many unconfirmed rumors circulated and suspision clouded every police car. People organized into community defense committees by the group ICE Out of Austin tried to confirm and respond to reports of raids, but often were chasing ghosts or arrived late to pick up the pieces and console family members. The committees had prepared for house raids and the arrests seemed to play out on the sides of highways and roads, workplaces, and nearby schools. The clearest documentation came Friday, Facebook Live video of a man on his knees by his truck outside the Whataburger near Rundberg and Lamar pleading with Immigration officials. Hours later, a single member of the Peaceful Streets Project arrived at the intersection with extra signs and numbers grew dramatically over the evening.    What started out as five or so people gathered on the corner of Rundberg and Lamar grew over the course of a few hours to a lively crowd of 200 people, almost entirely Latino/a families. The spirit is festive; nearly everyone is smiling, cheering. The sense was that “Rundberg’s time has finally come.” The demonstration lines both Lamar and Rundberg going about half a block down each street with the mass milling on the corner. People hold signs, flags (Mexico, Honduras, Ecuador, Palestine, and a few others), children, and phones. The intersection filled with cars and trucks driving slow, revving engines, and taking pictures—some are circling the block to do it all over again. The sound of car horns is unrelenting.  The gatherings continue the next night and the social peace with APD is broken. Roads are blocked, orders are disobeyed, bottles are thrown at officers. Riot police are everywhere, a helicopter circles above, but all are contained by the tension of community policing. Their job is to maintain an unjust social order, but with a light enough touch to prevent a rebellion and to make sure that their investment in Rundberg is intact.    The miltancy spread into workplaces and schools. Teenagers staged highschool walkouts daily and the week culminated in “A Day Without Immigrants” on February 16th. Many businesses closed and others were forced to close. An estimated 20,000 students did not show up for classes—a quarter of kids enrolled in the Austin Independent School District. Students in suburban high schools marched on highways 290 and 71, some saying they were headed into the inner city. Eventually many were corralled by APD, Sheriffs and administrators and forced to go back to class. Several administrators made personal appeals to students to think of the funding the school would lose without them sitting in their seats.
11	adjudicated	3	Local residents gather June 30 at the corner of Broadway Street and San Antonio Drive in King City to call for immigration policy reforms. The group was part of the Families Belong Together protest, which held protests across the country.  SOUTH COUNTY — Holding homemade signs that read “Children Don’t Belong in Cages” and “Families Belong Together,” more than 50 demonstrators, including many children, stood together last Saturday afternoon at King City’s welcome sign in protest against current harsh immigration policies at the nation’s southern border.  The South County gathering in King City and later in Greenfield on June 30 was part of a nationwide outcry. It was organized by Lockwood activist Susan Raycraft with help from her INDIVISIBLE group, which meets weekly to discuss positive ways people can work together to improve public life, locally and nationally.  It was the intention of those who gathered in South County, as well as those who marched in more than 750 towns and cities across the country, to call attention to the reality that while the president signed an executive order June 20 ending the official policy of breaking apart families, more than 2,000 children remain separated from their parents, who struggle to find them.  “The ‘zero tolerance’ for refugees seeking asylum and compassion at the border with Mexico continues,” Raycraft said. “Families continue to suffer in the name of a false security threat they do not pose.”  Those who drove by the gathering were given a handout in English and Spanish explaining how to contact local elected representatives urging them to support the “Keep Families Together Act” introduced on June 7, SB 3036.
12	adjudicated	1	Perhaps the most remarkable show of militant self-activity, yet one of the least discussed, is the Rundberg Rebellion of February. In response to the ICE crackdown on undocumented immigrants and recent raids, a spontaneous mass protest developed over multiple nights among the Latinx community at the intersection of North Lamar and Rundberg. This would come to be unlike any protest held by either liberal activists or the traditional Left. Dozens to hundreds of people filled the intersection, waving the flags of various countries. Many ran laps around the intersection, jubilantly dancing, clapping, and chanting things like “No rules, No ICE, let’s fuck this shit up!” As people took over the street, many stopped their cars and joined the action. Rather than another overdone street rally, the revolt took on a jubilant and defiant nature as an entire community manifested its social life in the intersection.    The police came out in full force and riot gear, terrified of the true potential of the insurrection that was developing, but they could do little but watch. Their arrival produced confrontation, with the militant youth launching water bottles and whatever debris they could find. While many Austin revolutionaries had arrived to participate alongside the community, they were not the first to mask up—it was the youth who donned masks and initiated confrontations, contrary to the assertions of many activists who have claimed that masking (and even militancy) are alien to Latinx and immigrant communities. These young insurrectionaries even defended the other militants against the anger of others who wanted the protest to retain a more peaceful, controlled nature. Though massively outgunned, the revolt did not need to defeat the police militarily because it had already won at a social level. The consistency, the social connections and community produced in that space—which one comrade described as “reclaimed…totally autonomous from the State”—ensured that the State could not penetrate or reclaim the territory until the people dispersed of their own volition.  Fireworks lit up the night and the celebratory crowd—with some reports even saying that a building and a cop car were burned over the weekend. Music blared through the night and produced a full-fledged dance party in the street. In an intersection ringed by riot cops people danced and sang along to “Fuck Tha Police.” Despite attempts by some to turn this into a moment to proselytize about their revolutionary program, the insurrectionaries maintained a jubilant and joyful revolt. They learned their politics not through lectures or books but by through experimentation and actualizing their capacity to hold space, through the rhythms of music and the movement of their bodies. Eventually though, this moment came to a close as over the next week the energy dissipated back into the community, the streets were not as filled, and the police seized upon certain community “representatives” to control the event while claiming that the confrontations were the result of “outside agitators.” We of course know that this is a lie—a racist lie that obscures the militant desires and self-activity of the exploited and excluded against the white supremacist State—and we know that the insurrection lives on in the community, in organizational efforts like the Instituto Tejano, and that it can always reactivate.
13	adjudicated	2	AUSTIN (KXAN) — More than 100 people gathered in North Austin overnight to protest against immigration agents cracking down on unauthorized immigrants throughout the Austin area.  The demonstrators gathered near the intersection of North Lamar Boulevard and Rundberg Lane until early Saturday morning at the same location where Immigration and Customs Enforcement arrested a man illegally living in the country Friday morning.  On Friday, Congressman Joaquin Castro confirmed that ICE launched a targeted operation in South and Central Texas. As part of ICE’s Operation Cross Check, officers conduct the nationwide operation by detaining unauthorized immigrants convicted of crimes in the country.  Protesters Friday night voiced their concerns about the recent operation and its effect on some Austin communities.  “They’re just separating families but we as a community here have the right to gather and unite and fight for our rights- for the rights of the community, for the rights of the immigrants,” protester Martin Cruz said.  MOST READ: Sick of school catalog fundraisers, Texas dad launches hilarious GoFundMe Austin-based Consul General of Mexico Carlos Gonzales Gutierrez says there are a range of issues why ICE could be targeting immigrants, despite if in most cases they have established U.S. roots.  “Sometimes it’s cases of DWI, sometimes it’s people that have come and go several times undocumented and ICE has already identified them. Sometimes they are accused of domestic violence. Sometimes they have not complied with a previous deportation order. There’s many reasons why ICE is looking for them,” Gonzales Gutierrez said.  According to the Mexican Consulate, a total of 44 arrests were made in the last two days.
14	adjudicated	4	Hundreds of demonstrators gathered near the White House on Saturday in protest of raids following President Trump's executive order ramping up immigration enforcement.  Holding signs bearing calls to resist the Trump administration's "anti-immigrant" policies, some 200 protesters chanted "here to stay" and "undocumented, unafraid."  The protest, called together earlier Saturday, capped off a week marked by the first large-scale enforcement of Trump's Jan. 25 executive order cracking down on the roughly 11 million people living in the U.S. illegally.  Trump has vowed to deport 3 million undocumented immigrants with criminal records, but the sweeping immigration enforcements raids this past week have been criticized by activists and Democratic leaders.  U.S. immigration officials arrested hundreds of undocumented immigrants across the country this week in cities including Los Angeles, Chicago, Atlanta and New York.  At least 161 arrests were made in Los Angeles and 200 were made in Atlanta, though Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials did not say many arrests were made in total.   One by one on Saturday, speakers took turns voicing concerns that their friends and families could soon become targets of federal immigration agents.  "These are the same raids that are terrorizing our entire community," said Deyanira Aldana, one of the speakers at the rally. "Rogue ICE agents come into our places of work, into our homes, into our neighborhood spots, and wait for our community to be vulnerable."  As the sun began to set Saturday evening, the crowd broke from its position on the east end of the White House and marched through the surrounding streets, briefly blocking traffic before ending on the west end of the building.   "Trump's goal for the next four years will be to expand the term 'criminals,'" said Ambar Pinto, another speaker. "It's a duty to resist. It is a duty to be the opposition."  At several points during the rally, which was organized by activists with United We Dream, protesters acted out scenarios demonstrating allegedly intimidating treatment by immigration agents.  Trump promised a sweeping crackdown on illegal immigration during his White House campaign and has vowed to construct a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border as part of a tougher position on illegal immigration.   Updated: 6:47 p.m.
15	adjudicated	3	“Galvanized by the images and voices of immigrant children separated from their parents by President Trump’s immigration policies, hundreds of thousands took to the streets Saturday in major cities and small towns across America to expressed outrage that they hope will carry over into the fall election,” reported the LA Times, June 30.  Idyllwild residents were no exception. Rallying support for “Families Belong Together,” Harmony Monument acted as ground zero at 10 a.m. Saturday, June 30, leaving little question that upwards of 175 residents demand immigration and refugee policy changes at U.S. borders.   Idyllwild-area residents gathered in front of Harmony Monument at 10 a.m. Saturday to do what thousands of people are doing all across the U.S. — marching in opposition to President Donald Trump’s zero-tolerance immigration policy. Between 100 and 200 people marched from the monument through Strawberry Creek Plaza, along the Fort and up, then down, North Circle Drive. Photo by Becky Clark Led by a consortium of local community activists, the Idyllwild march became a flashpoint for placards and posters, with the chanting, “No hate! No Fear! Immigrants are welcome here!” Bronwyn Jones states, “I love this mountain village and the wonderful people who live, love and work here.”  Marching and chanting in unison, the group circled through Strawberry Creek Square, across the front of the Fort, up North Circle Drive and ultimately returned to the monument. Participants sporting Idyllwild Indivisible T-shirts mingled between participants carrying signs saying “What if They took your Children?” and “Practice Aloha.” Temple Har Shalom fielded a sign reminding “First they came for the children,” followed by “We are all family,” “I care! Do U?” “Proud Americans do Care” and “Proud Americans for family unity,” “Human Rights, Truth and Compassion.” Even children carried signs saying, “Families belong together.” “Resist; Grab ’Em by the 2018 Mid-Terms” and “We are all Immigrants” were common themes.  What is the takeaway from an epoch mobilization of free speech across the U.S. and in Idyllwild under the banner “Families Belong Together?” The National Domestic Workers Alliance Political Director Jess Morales Rocketto stated, “I have literally never seen Americans show up for immigrants like this.” But the subject is far from resolved.  Perhaps the answer lies in the fact that to date, MSNBC reports about 500 families have been reunited, yet thousands of children remain estranged from their families.
16	adjudicated	1	MOUNT VERNON, Wash. - Hundreds of demonstrators participated in a peaceful five-mile march from Burlington to Mount Vernon Sunday.  Demonstrators gathered at Mount Vernon Courthouse after the march, voicing immigrant and farm worker rights. Nearly 700 people attended the march.  The demonstration comes a day after protesters in Bellingham blocked a section of Interstate 5, causing a four-mile backup and a rollover accident that sent a woman to the hospital.  Burlington and Mount Vernon police provided 12 additional officers to staff Sunday's march from Burlington to Mount Vernon, citing concerns that I-5 could again become a platform for protest.  Authorities from the Washington State Patrol were also at the march.  Around 100 people were at the protest in Bellingham Saturday, blocking traffic on I-5 near Lakeway Drive. The demonstration led to a three-car accident, WSP said. A woman in the crash was hospitalized with minor injuries.  Authorities Saturday had a difficult time gathering enough officers to respond to the protest, WSP Trooper Axtman said, which delayed response time and allowed the protest to go on longer than expected.  Axtman said State Patrol did not feel safe confronting the protesters if they were outnumbered. State Patrol ended up borrowing troopers from as far south as Snohomish County.  It's illegal for pedestrians to be on the interstate. WSP is investigating and may make arrests early this week.  No arrests were made during Sunday's march from Burlington to Mount Vernon.  State Senator Doug Eriksen told KOMO Sunday he plans to push through a bill that would make it a felony charge for protestors to illegally ‘obstruct economic activity.’  “I support the right to peacefully assemble,” said Eriksen. “[However] You do not have the right to go block a major interstate and cause accidents and harm to other people. That's just wrong.”  Eriksen said yesterday’s protest would be such a case where protestors should be charged as they were blocking a major interstate.  The bill is currently in a State Senate Committee, but Eriksen said the bill should move forward to avoid events like yesterday’s from happening again.  
17	adjudicated	4	MILWAUKEE — A sea of demonstrators on Monday marched from Milwaukee's predominantly Hispanic south side to the downtown courthouse to protest a plan that would deputize local law enforcement officers as federal immigration agents.  Busloads of demonstrators from about a dozen communities around Wisconsin arrived to join local protesters in the mile-long march. Parents with children in strollers, young men hoisting Mexican and American flags, and older supporters mingled as the crowd, estimated at 10,000 to 20,000 by police, moved through the streets chanting "Si, podemos!" or "Yes we can!"  Jose Flores, board president at Voces de le Frontera, one of the groups organizing the march, said he is fearful of the plan by Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke to enroll his deputies in a federal program that allows them to perform immigration law enforcement functions.  "Many peoples got to be afraid, you know. Like many families in this county, there's a lot of hard workers. They are not criminals. We are not criminals," Flores said.  Activists also marched against President Donald Trump's stand on immigration and his executive order that targets just about any immigrant living in the country illegally for deportation.  "There's a lot of hate in the country now with the new president and we march for that too," Flores said.  Organizers invited Latinos and others around the state to close their businesses, take their children out of school and march to stop Clarke from turning deputies into immigration agents.  In a statement, Clarke said the United States has an interest in controlling its borders, including for national and domestic security reasons, to prevent the spread of infectious diseases, and to "control the number of another failed nation's refugees which would overwhelm America's limited public services."  "There must be a zero tolerance for allowing people to illegally enter this country and establish permanent residency," the sheriff said.  Milwaukee police officers blocked intersections to allow the massive crowd to move freely to the downtown courthouse.  "This country's greatest strength is its immigrants, said Milwaukee County Executive Chris Abele who surveyed the crowd from the courthouse terrace. "It's easy to forget what makes us strong."  Abele said immigration was not a Republican or a Democratic issue.  "This is an American issue, a citizens' issue," he said. Abele asked where the City of Milwaukee would be without the German immigrants who came in droves during the 1800s.  Maria Jasso, 31, said she brought her three children, ages 6, 8 and 9, to the march to learn an important lesson about immigration.  "We want the president to not do what he wants to do," Jasso said, speaking about the separation of families when a deportation occurs.  The organizers also included the Coalition for an Inclusive Wisconsin and Muslim community organizations.
18	adjudicated	3	Dozens of activists protested outside the Philadelphia offices of Immigration and Customs Enforcement for what they said was the arrest of a Latino man in a home raid Tuesday.  The New Sanctuary Movement of Philadelphia received a call on its hot line around 4:40 p.m. of ICE agents at a home attempting to make an arrest, said Peter Pedemonti, the group's executive director.  "We could hear the pounding at the door" over the phone, Pedemonti said. "Before we could get the address the line went dead."  New Sanctuary, an interfaith immigrant-rights group, issued an alert for activists to assemble at the ICE office at 16th and Callowhill Streets in Center City.  Pedemonti said he and several other group members saw a federal law-enforcement van pull up on Callowhill and an unidentified Latino man in handcuffs was taken into the building. Pedemonti did not know the man's identity or why he was in custody.   About 60 to 70 people held a prayer vigil and sang songs outside the ICE office before peacefully dispersing, Pedemonti said.  A spokesman for the Philadelphia ICE office did not have immediate information on the man in custody.  More than 600 people have been arrested across the nation by ICE this week in what critics say are raids to implement the campaign promise of President Trump to mass depart undocumented immigrants.  John Kelly, secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, said Monday that ICE was conducting "routine, targeted arrests" against "convicted criminal aliens and gang members" as well as other immigration-law violators.
19	adjudicated	4	There were posters, chants and much talk about President Donald Trump’s immigration policies at a march that drew several thousand people to Irvine and at a rally in Laguna Beach with 500.  But for many families, the Families Belong Together gatherings that played out throughout the country offered something extra: a teaching moment.  “I brought my children here because they need to be aware of social justice and the society they live in and how they can make it better,” said Shannon Gerlach of Laguna Hills, who with her four children joined the rally at Laguna Beach’s Main Beach.   Her eldest daughter, Aislyn, age 11, said: “I don’t know how I would feel if my parents got taken away from me.”  Referring to the 2,000-plus immigrant children who have been separated by authorities from their parents at the U.S.-Mexican border, the girl added: “I want to bring them back together, because they’re really young and they’re scared.”  Under a shady tree, as the crowd nearby chanted “This is what democracy looks like!” Nate Iott of Newport Beach tried to explain to his four-year-old daughter what democracy means, referring to her friends and how they can go about choosing ice cream flavors.   Her mom, Teresa Iott, a retail manager, choked up when she talked about the children held in detention centers, including a shelter in Orange County: “I can’t imagine her spending one night not knowing where we are. I can’t believe this is happening in the United States.”    Sonia Meyerhof, 90, said the news she hears reminds her of the United States’ Japanese internment camps during World War II.  “Except they didn’t separate families,” said Meyerhof, at the Laguna Beach rally with her two daughters. “It was inhumane, but not as inhumane as today.”   In Irvine, some 2,800 people signed up to march Saturday afternoon from Portola High School to the James A. Musick Facility, a detention center that also houses immigrant detainees residing in the country illegally.  Police estimated the crowd at 3,000 to 4,000.   “I’m overwhelmed by the number of Orange County residents who came out to show they care and to stand up for true American values,” said one of the organizers,  Joanna Weiss, president of the Women for American Values and Ethics.  “People are taking back their democracy,” she added.  As the last of the throng walked away from the detention center, they chanted one last time: “Set them free!”
20	adjudicated	1	DEL VALLE, Texas (KXAN) — Close to a hundred students blocked traffic as they marched on State Highway 71 in Del Valle near State Highway 130, Wednesday afternoon.  Video shows the group of students walking westbound on the highway, with some students walking on the concrete barriers, as they made their way west from Del Valle High School on Ross Road.  A spokesperson for Del Valle ISD says 50-75 students walked off campus. School is normally out at 4 p.m. The Travis County Sheriff’s Office along with other law enforcement followed the students to assist with traffic.  MOST READ: Sick of school catalog fundraisers, Texas dad launches hilarious GoFundMe As the students were marching, a deadly shooting occurred less than a mile down the road, just before 3 p.m. The Travis County Sheriff’s Office says a kidnapping suspect was coming from Bastrop when he encountered the traffic backup related to the march.  Instead of staying on the highway, authorities say he turned into a church parking lot and got out of his car with the victim. Deputies who were assisting with the rally noticed something unusual and when they went to check on it, they encountered the suspect who they say immediately shot and killed the victim before turning the gun on himself. For full details on the deadly shooting, click here.  While it was not immediately clear what the students were protesting or marching for, students at Lanier High School marched Monday afternoon in response to the Immigration and Custom Enforcement operation in Austin that saw 51 undocumented immigrants arrested. 
21	adjudicated	2	A protest in downtown Tucson against President Trump’s immigration policies escalated Thursday evening. Three officers sustained minor injuries in clashes with demonstrators; no one was taken to a hospital, said Tucson Police Sgt. Pete Dugan.  One officer was hit in the face and another in the back, Dugan said. He wasn’t sure how the third was injured.  Three men were arrested on suspicion of aggravated assault on a police officer, Dugan said. A woman was arrested on suspicion of obstructing, and of failing to identify herself, Dugan said. All four will be booked into Pima County jail, he said. Their names were not immediately released.  Subscribe to stay connected to Tucson. A subscription helps you access more of the local stories that keep you connected to the community.  Dugan said the police office of professional standards will investigate, after protesters complained about officers’ actions.  Tucson Police Lt. Jennifer Turner said the protest began at 4:30 p.m., in front of the federal building on West Congress Street at Granada Avenue, and by 6 p.m., included about 80 people. At that point, an officer issued an emergency call for assistance, she said.  Dugan gave this account:  The protest was peaceful until many started to enter the roadway, disrupting traffic on Congress. An officer was struck from behind and when officers tried to take a suspect into custody, members of the crowd surrounded the officers, moving closer. Some protesters locked arms and got in front of a police vehicle. Police used pepper spray to disperse the crowd.  “Unfortunately for those trying to peacefully protest,” police had to step in when officers were assaulted and the investigation was obstructed, Dugan said.  Protesters, who said they were demonstrating against ICE raids that began last week, disputed police accounts of the protest.  A protest organizer, Stteffanny Cott, said police overreacted to a peaceful demonstration.  “This was provocation on the side of the police,” Cott said, saying a police SUV blocked the route protesters intended to use between the federal building and their Armory Park destination. She said marchers were going around the police vehicle, and that the officer was revving the engine and the SUV nudged a Brown Beret demonstrator, David Leon.
22	adjudicated	4	LAKEPORT >> A small but enthusiastic group of concerned citizens marched in Lakeport on Saturday to protest actions by the Trump administration that separated young children and babies from their immigrant parents.  Many held hand-drawn signs and waved U.S. flags, and said they were there because they could no longer stay silent about what they considered an illegal and immoral act by the Trump administration. The march in Lakeport was just one of many that took place in more than 700 cities across the U.S. and abroad. The group had scheduled a much larger event on N. Main Street near the County Courthouse but canceled at the last minute due to a conflict with a planned bicycle race.  “We had speakers lined up and a lot more people who had signed up to come,” said Cindi Koehn, event organizer. “There were so many who contacted me and wanted to be a part of the nationwide protests; we decided to have it at a different location. We only had two days to reschedule and inform people the protest was still on. Even with the late changes, our group had over 60 participants at times.”  The group carried signs with a variety of messages. Most stressed “love” over “hate” and called for keeping families together. “We Care” and the ACLU placard, “Hate Has No Home Here,” were meant as encouragement for those personally impacted by the “zero tolerance” policy and a reminder that they are not alone. Other signs demanded Trump’s deportation or the abolition of ICE.  While women seemed to be in the majority, there were several men and children also taking part, along with a few friendly dogs.  The group assembled at the Soper Reese Theatre and walked south on Main street on the sidewalk while chanting such slogans as  “Love, not hate, makes America great” and “the people united will never be divided.”  Following the short march, the group gathered near the theatre to make their voices known to drivers forced to detour past them due to the bicycle race.  “I could not stay home today,” said Kathy Herdman, one of the marchers. “Seeing kids in cages and having missing girls and babies…this is not the America I know and love. I had to do something.”   Christina Drukala joined the protest after seeing the group while she was refilling her propane at a station near the theatre. “My heart is aching, seeing what is happening to our country,” she said. “I am a child therapist, and I am very concerned about the long-term effects of this separation on the children, especially the babies. We all have to voice our concern and opposition to the horrible policies of this administration.”  Another protester, Lynne Demele, added forcefully, “We have to stop the Trump machine. We can’t just sit home any longer, and we have to vote.”  Many of those driving by voiced support with long, extended horn honks and friendly waves. Other drivers and passengers appeared embarrassed, covering their faces with their hands and refusing to interact or make eye contact. One man in a shiny blue Corvette expressed his opinion by pointing his thumb downward as he drove past the group.  There were also a few who drove big pickup trucks carrying large US flags, who tried to drown out the chanters with revving engines and smoking tires. These actions resulted in laughter and comments by protesters. “Do you think that guy voted for Trump?” asked one.  The protest was peaceful and lasted about an hour. For more information about upcoming similar events, go to Families Belong Together Lakeport March on Facebook.
23	adjudicated	3	POLITICS LA businesses close for 'A Day Without Immigrants' protest Thursday, February 16, 2017  EMBED <>MORE VIDEOS  Protests were held around Southern California as part of "A Day Without Immigrants."  LOS ANGELES (KABC) -- Businesses across Los Angeles - and in cities nationwide - closed on Thursday in support of the "A Day Without Immigrants" protest.  Immigrants skipped out of shopping and stayed home from work and school as a response to President Donald Trump's immigration agenda. Trump is pushing for increased deportations, a wall on the Mexico border and a travel ban on citizens from seven Muslim-majority countries.  In Ventura County, at least 50 students from Ventura College held a demonstration on campus in honor of immigrants.  Similar boycotts were held in Chicago, Washington D.C. Philadelphia and other cities.  Juan Sanjuan, the owner of Gloria's Restaurant & Bar in Huntington Park, was among those who closed for the day.     "Money is important but being with our community, being united is bigger," Sanjuan said. "It's important for people to know that we are here to work and we're good people. We're not here to disrupt or do anything wrong, we're just here to work."
24	adjudicated	4	PLEASANTON, CA — More than 600 people turned out Saturday to take part in the 'Families Belong Together' rally held at Lion Wayside Park in Pleasanton, according to Tri Valley Progressives for Our Revolution. More than 400 people turned out in Dublin and 350 participated in the Livermore rally. The Pleasanton event was one of 700 planned nationwide.  Rabbi Larry Milder, Congregation Beth Emek, Pleasanton Mayor Jerry Thorne, Spojmie Nasiri, Immigration Attorney/Muslim Community Center East Bay, Sammy Jo Rudy, on behalf of Congressman Eric Swalwell, resident Julie Testa, Tri­-Valley NAMI (National Alliance on Mental Illness), Felicitas Bejarnaro, Counselor, Arushi Avachat, Founder, Students for Social Change, and Father Kwame Assenjoh, Associate Pastor, Catholic Community of Pleasanton shared their immigration stories, and urged attendees to vote this November.  Activists shared their list of demands:  Reunite families now. Permanently end family separation and immediately reunify those that have been separated. ICE must release parents immediately so that ORR can reunify them with their children. End family detention. Children and families deserve due process, not indefinite imprisonment. Children do not belong in baby cages and internment-like camps. Family incarceration is not the solution to family separation. End 'Zero Humanity.' Reverse the Trump administration's policy that created this crisis and chaos to begin with. Parents should not be criminally prosecuted for doing what all parents do, which is bring their children to safety. This horrible nightmare for families will only end when Trump permanently stops his 100% prosecution policy. Photos courtesy Tri Valley Progressives for Our Revolution
25	adjudicated	4	Some businesses in San Diego County shut down Thursday as part of a nationwide immigrant strike.  Dubbed by organizers as a “Day Without Immigrants,” the protest is in response to recent roundups of undocumented immigrants, as well as the Trump administration’s halted immigration ban on people coming from seven Muslim-majority countries.  While the strike was having an impact in Chicago and Washington, D.C., San Diego appeared to have much less participation.  Dr. Angel Ochoa-Rea, closed his two-person business LGBT Chiropractic because he felt recent raids on undocumented immigrants did not reflect American values. He immigrated to the United States from Mexico when he was 5 years old.  “I wanted the community as a whole to realize that immigrants are not just restaurant workers,” he said. “We are also doctors, pilots and lawyers and attorneys.”  Here is a list of the businesses the U-T has confirmed are closed all day because of the strike:  Fox Sports Grill, downtown Alamilla’s Mexican Food, downtown Souplantation, Carmel Valley LGBT Chiropractic, North Park Cafe on Park, Hillcrest Senor Mangos, North Park Leon Produce, North Park Jayne’s Gastropub, North Park Jayne’s Gastropub posted a note on Facebook that said, “We, too, are immigrants and stand in solidarity with the National Strike.” The Souplantation in Carmel Valley was eventually pushed to shut down after four employees Thursday morning did not show up, manager Luis Acosta said. He said the business eventually decided to close this afternoon but the employees who took the day off would not be disciplined.  Jon Erickson, co-owner of Jayne’s Gastropub in North Park, said his 12 employees include people from France, Latvia, Mexico and England.  “There’s a lot of fear and concern among immigrant people all over the place,” he said. “It just made perfect sense. A day of business is not the end of the world.”  Erickson said his employees would be paid for the day off. He said early comments on an online version of this article that suggested immigration officials should raid businesses that participated in the strike did not dissuade him.  “That’s exactly the type of rhetoric to make people feel fearful,” he said. “It’s all the more reason for people to stand up.”  Tender Greens, which has four locations in San Diego County, said it would stay open to provide an option to for employees that did not want to miss a day of work but would not penalize workers that joined the strike.  Some business leaders have expressed frustration at President Donald Trump’s travel ban.  Mark Cafferty, CEO of the San Diego Regional Economic Development Corporation, said in a statement that the region’s top research institutions, science and technology companies rely on immigrants.  “President Trump’s recent immigration actions are harmful to San Diego companies and our economy, just as they are harmful to our nation as a whole,” he said about the travel ban.  An immigrant and refugee rights protest planned for Saturday has 1,400 people confirmed as going on Facebook. The “March in Solidarity with Immigrants” begins at 11 a.m. with a rally at Waterfront Park. By noon, organizers say they will march to the Edward J. Schwartz federal building and through downtown.
26	adjudicated	4	Protestors demanding an end to the separation of immigrant families gathered in Long Beach on Saturday, in conjunction with similar rallies held nationwide aimed at reuniting families and keeping the conversation about immigrant rights alive.  Around 1,300 people with homemade signs met at Cesar Chavez Park and marched to the Glenn Anderson Federal Building to voice their anger and concern over the Trump administration’s zero-tolerance policy toward undocumented immigrants that has resulted in the separation of children from their parents since being enacted in May.  “I see those pictures and I cry,” said Anaheim resident Theresa Hill, referring to children being held in detention. “This is ridiculous. I just can’t believe that this is happening.”  Previous                                                  Next 1 of 24 Hundreds gathered at Cesar Chavez Park in Long Beach on Saturday, June 30, 2018 then marched to 501 W Ocean Boulevard, in protest of the Trump administration policy of separating children from their families at the border. (Photo by Brittany Murray, Press Telegram/SCNG)  No counterprotesters were visible at the rally, but earlier this week Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, known as FAIR, said the laws regarding minors showing up to the border to claim asylum are flawed, adding that countries must take more responsibility in serving their citizens.  “It is just not feasible for the United States to be expected to provide for every person who is living in a country whose government is either so corrupt that it just doesn’t care or so incompetent that it can’t protect and serve their basic interest,” Mehlman said. “At some point these countries have to take responsibility.”  Beyond those policies, organizers of the #FamiliesBelongTogether march demanded the abolition of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, known as ICE, and that Donald Trump be removed from office.  Related: Tens of thousands march through Downtown Los Angeles and around Southern California  The idea that all immigrants are criminals and calling them names is not only irresponsible, but has dangerous consequences, said Jonathan Solorzano, a community organizer with the Long Beach Immigrant Rights Coalition.   “Trump has been pushing that narrative since he began campaigning,” Solorzano said. “It’s becoming a problem where people are literally getting hurt.”  Demonstrators accused Trump of using the children as pawns to get his much-promised border wall built.  “They’re alyssum seekers,” said Long Beach resident Dorothy Von Zumwalt. “What we’re doing is criminal. Not them. This is not American. He’s created this mess for his wall.”  Hundreds gathered at Cesar Chavez Park in Long Beach on Saturday, June 30, 2018 then marched to 501 W Ocean Boulevard, in protest of the Trump administration policy of separating children from their families at the border. (Photo by Brittany Murray, Press Telegram/SCNG) Hundreds gathered at Cesar Chavez Park in Long Beach on Saturday, June 30, 2018 then marched to 501 W Ocean Boulevard, in protest of the Trump administration policy of separating children from their families at the border. (Photo by Brittany Murray, Press Telegram/SCNG) She carried a sign that read “Keep Your Policies Off The Babies.”  Von Zumwalt also criticized the federal government’s handling of the children.  “They haven’t even given us an exact number,” she said. “We match up parents to children better at a Chuck E. Cheese.”  Many held signs and wore t-shirts declaring “We are all immigrants,” “Why Do Republicans Hate Babies” and “I Really Care, Do You?,” a jab at a jacket worn by first lady Melania Trump enroute to a migrant detention center in Texas earlier this month.  Congressmen Alan Lowenthal, D-Long Beach, compared the family separations to the internment of Japanese families during World War II.  “Now we bring people who are seeking freedom and rip their children away and send them  to detention centers, to prisons… 1,000, 2,000 milles away,” Lowenthal said to the crowd. “This must end. We should put the president in a cage and see what he thinks.”  Throngs of pedestrians and motorists honked and cheered in support of marchers as they made their way down Pine Avenue toward Ocean Boulevard.  Chants of “No ban. No Wall. Sanctuary for all” and “Children Do Not belong in Cages” rose from the crowd. Others criticized the detention centers holding immigrant children, describing them as concentration camps and child prisons.  In front of the federal building, the crowd demanded ICE be “shut down,” with some calling the federal agency “rouge” and a “terrorist organization.”  Hundreds gathered at Cesar Chavez Park in Long Beach on Saturday, June 30, 2018 then marched to 501 W Ocean Boulevard, in protest of the Trump administration policy of separating children from their families at the border. (Photo by Brittany Murray, Press Telegram/SCNG) Hundreds gathered at Cesar Chavez Park in Long Beach on Saturday, June 30, 2018 then marched to 501 W Ocean Boulevard, in protest of the Trump administration policy of separating children from their families at the border. (Photo by Brittany Murray, Press Telegram/SCNG) Steve Avila’s family came to the U.S. illegally from Guatemala in the 80s because of increasing violence. The lack of empathy has led to resistance to welcoming immigrants from poorer nations, the Carson resident said.  “We worry about what we have… and that’s it,” Avila said. “We need to think about the world. The world is our family.”  RELATED ARTICLES Court says ICE can’t detain immigrants based on poverty Many in Mideast see ‘amazing hypocrisy’ in embrace of Ukraine Mexico deports border hit-man gang leader to US US seeks regional approach to migration and asylum seekers More Russians find ways around sweeping US asylum limits Earlier this month, Trump signed an executive order banning the splitting of immigrant families. Those detained hail from mostly Central America where violence has resulted in a wave of migrants traveling to the U.S.-Mexico border to claim asylum.  More than 2,300 undocumented children have been separated from their families since the zero-tolerance policy went into effect. Under the policy, adults caught crossing into the country illegally were referred for prosecution and their children went sent to federal detention centers.  No plan on how to reunite families has been announced.  Long Beach resident Sofia Ledezma said her mother come to the U.S. illegally from El Salvador and was granted amnesty under Ronald Reagan. The 41-year-old said out of control gang violence is the major factor why people risk their lives cross the border.  “I feel for these kids,” Ledezma said. “I would like for the other side to put their children’s faces to these children’s faces.”
27	adjudicated	3	UKIAH 2/16/2017 — A small but spirited crowd of protesters and activists gathered outside the courthouse Thursday morning to show their support for immigrants. About two dozen people, ranging in age from toddlers to mid-seventies, waved signs in English and Spanish and chanted slogans in both languages. The action came as part of a nationwide “Day with Immigrants” protest, intend to highlight the economic benefit brought by immigrants to the U.S. It comes at a moment of great fear in immigrant communities across the county, including Mendocino County, where rumors that the federal Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE) would be at the protest to potentially deport people. This did not seem to be the case, though a Homeland Security vehicle was spotted monitoring a sister protest in Fortuna (from our sister site Kymkemp.com). Similar rumors have been circulating in Ukiah for the past few days, but there is not yet any evidence that they are true. However, substantial deportation raids have been taking place across the country and especially in Southern California.  The event was organized by Carina Barajas, 35, who was born in the U.S. and grew up in Mexico. Referring to the rising anti-immigrant climate in the country the first time protester explained, “We feel like we’re under attack.” Yesterday, when Barajas heard about the national strike, “A Day Without Immigrants,” that was planned for today, she invited her friends and family to join her at the courthouse. She said that when she told co-workers at Pomolita Middle School, where she works with special needs children, why she would not be coming in today, one co-worker predicted that she would get in “big trouble.” Barajas replied, “This is my big thing.”                  Reactions to the protest were mostly positive, though two elderly white men asked separately why the children weren’t in school. Barajas smiled as another woman advised one of the men to mind his own business. The chanting broke off when a car containing a little boy wearing a glittery paper crown stopped at the light. Almost in unison, the protesters broke into a noisy rendition of “Happy Birthday,” until the car drove away. Another woman pulled up at the red light and leaned on her horn, waving excitedly, until the light turned green and she, too, went on her way.  Advertisements  A woman carrying a pot of burning aromatic herbs and a feathered headdress walked up to the group and offered to bathe the protesters in a cloud of smoke. She declined to give her name because of her job, and set the headdress and the smoking pot on the corner of Perkins and State Street as she joined the protesters.  Priscilla Hunter and Polly Girvin, of the Coyote Valley Band of Pomo Indians, showed up around noon. Girvin invited a gay passerby to express the LGBTQ community’s support for immigrant rights, and announced that “The Coyote Valley Band of Pomo Indians stands with all brown people.” She also told a white man who expressed a lack of solidarity to “Go back to Europe, immigrant!” The man responded that “I am home!”  Advertisements  Hunter remarked that “It’s not just Mexican people who have concerns, because we’re all brown.”
28	adjudicated	3	POLITICS LA businesses close for 'A Day Without Immigrants' protest Thursday, February 16, 2017  EMBED <>MORE VIDEOS  Protests were held around Southern California as part of "A Day Without Immigrants."  LOS ANGELES (KABC) -- Businesses across Los Angeles - and in cities nationwide - closed on Thursday in support of the "A Day Without Immigrants" protest.  Immigrants skipped out of shopping and stayed home from work and school as a response to President Donald Trump's immigration agenda. Trump is pushing for increased deportations, a wall on the Mexico border and a travel ban on citizens from seven Muslim-majority countries.  In Ventura County, at least 50 students from Ventura College held a demonstration on campus in honor of immigrants.  Similar boycotts were held in Chicago, Washington D.C. Philadelphia and other cities.  Juan Sanjuan, the owner of Gloria's Restaurant & Bar in Huntington Park, was among those who closed for the day.     "Money is important but being with our community, being united is bigger," Sanjuan said. "It's important for people to know that we are here to work and we're good people. We're not here to disrupt or do anything wrong, we're just here to work."
29	adjudicated	2	Denver’s foreign-born residents made their absence felt around the city today for the Day without Immigrants protest against President Donald Trump’s proposed policies and stepped up immigration enforcement around the country.   The protest called for all immigrants, regardless of legal status, to stay home from work and school, not open their businesses and not spend any money. It’s a little hard to pin down numbers of people who stayed home, harder even than counting crowd numbers at a rally, and the anecdotal evidence is that the protest here wasn’t quite as large as in some other cities. But teachers reported half-empty classrooms and some job sites were noticeably empty.     Green Russell and Russell's Smokehouse in Larimer Square closed on the "day without immigrants," Feb. 16, 2016. (Kevin J. Beaty/Denverite)  day without immigrants; immigration; deportation; kevinjbeaty; denver; restaurant; food; larimer square; denverite; colorado; copolitics; Green Russell and Russell's Smokehouse in Larimer Square closed on the "day without immigrants," Feb. 16, 2016. (Kevin J. Beaty/Denverite) Denver Public Schools estimated that overall attendance was down about 5 percent compared to yesterday, but some schools saw between 30 and 50 percent of their students stay home. Those are preliminary estimates, officials said, because some teachers don’t enter their attendance until the end of the day. These absences are treated as unexcused unless the parent contacts the school with a valid reason.  Eater reported that a number of Denver restaurants closed either in solidarity or because they don’t have enough employees to open or because the owners themselves are immigrants.   The Colorado Restaurant Association warned its members not to retaliate against or punish workers who participate in the Day without Immigrants protest, in part because they may be protected by the law.  “First and foremost, you need to recognize that the National Labor Relations Act [NLRA] protects all workers who engage in lawful concerted activity for the purposes of mutual aid and protection,” the association said in an email. “This applies to unionized and non-unionized workforces alike. Any worker who takes or seeks to initiate an action among a group of employees about work-related issues, or brings complaints about the workplace to management, is covered under the statute. Therefore, if you take adverse action against these workers for their concerted, protected activity, you could face an unfair labor practice charge. You should not discipline workers for engaging in this concerted, protected activity. In fact, the unions and worker advocates may actually be eager for you to slip up and drop the disciplinary hammer on protestors, using your actions as an example to make workers into martyrs for their cause.”  Osteria Marco in Larimer Square, closed on the "day without immigrants," Feb. 16, 2016. (Kevin J. Beaty/Denverite)  day without immigrants; immigration; deportation; kevinjbeaty; denver; restaurant; food; larimer square; denverite; colorado; copolitics; Osteria Marco in Larimer Square, closed on the "day without immigrants," Feb. 16, 2016. (Kevin J. Beaty/Denverite) There’s also a sense of mutual interest.  “The Colorado Restaurant Association has long been in support of responsible immigration reform,” restaurant association executive director Sonia Riggs wrote. “We believe that immigrants are an important part of our workforce, and we support an immigration policy that includes a pathway to citizenship.”
30	adjudicated	3	STAMFORD — Stillwater Avenue businesses will close Thursday as part of a nationwide demonstration intended to show the value of immigrants — citizens and undocumented — to the U.S. economy.  The Old House, a restaurant with locations on Selleck and East Main streets, will also not open in solidarity with “A Day Without Immigrants,” said Catalina Horak, executive director of Building One Community, a Stamford-based resource for immigrants. Many businesses along Stillwater on the West Side are owned by immigrants.  The strike, organized and promoted through social media and Spanish-language television, aims to draw attention to immigrants who fear deportation under President Donald Trump.  All the stories, all the time Unlock Stamford Advocate for 99¢ SUBSCRIBE Rallies and actions are planned in cities, including Philadelphia, Washington, Boston and Austin, Texas, the Associated Press reported.  It is supported by the American Civil Liberties Union, which has defended many of those affected by Trump’s executive order that banned immigration from seven mostly Muslim countries. The ban remains frozen by a federal court.  “Immigrants are our neighbors, co-workers, friends, classmates and family members,” said Melvin Medina, outreach and advocacy director for the ACLU of Connecticut. “They are us, and they are a vital part of our Connecticut communities.”  The strike Thursday does not appear to have originated with a single advocacy group, but word spread rapidly on social media with the hashtag #DayWithoutImmigrants.
31	adjudicated	4	February 16, 2017 Immigrants strike to show D.C. what a day without them looks like Immigrants workers and students went on strike Tuesday to show what a "Day Without Immigrants" looks like. Restaurants around the city closed as well. (Jayne Orenstein/The Washington Post) Upscale Washington restaurants canceled long-standing reservations. A ubiquitous fast-casual chain closed due to staffing shortages. And teachers posted pictures on social media of empty classrooms.  Immigrants across the country went on strike Thursday to highlight their economic importance to a new administration that has taken a hard-line stance on immigration policies.  The strike, spurred by a social-media campaign, called for immigrants not to go to work, to avoid spending money and not send their children to school. It was intended to span across all businesses, but it was the restaurant industry — where immigrants make up nearly 23 percent of the national workforce, according to data compiled by the Institute for Immigration Research at George Mason University — that seemed most affected.  Scores of restaurants in Washington, Minneapolis, New York, Phoenix and beyond shuttered for the day. A handful of day-care centers and D.C. charter schools, including Next Step and Latin American Montessori Bilingual, closed for the day.   Oscar Rivera, 48, of Silver Spring, shouts as he marches down 14th Street on Thursday in Washington. (Sarah L. Voisin/The Washington Post) Leandra Gonzalez, a teacher at Paul Public Charter School in the District, posted a picture of her empty English as a Second Language class Thursday. She said that students are fearful of what the new presidency means for them and that many of the students’ parents asked beforehand if they could participate in the strike.  “I made sure the students understood that it’s not about skipping school and having the day off,” Gonzalez said. “It’s about having the school understand what it would be like if they weren’t there, because they bring so much culture and interesting stories.”  [These Washington restaurants will close for the ‘Day Without Immigrants’ protests]  In the Washington region, where about 48 percent of people working in the restaurant industry are foreign-born, dozens of restaurants closed. Food service in the U.S. Senate operated on reduced hours. Sweetgreen closed its 20 or so fast-casual salad outposts in the region. And celebrity chef José Andrés — a Spanish immigrant who is in a legal battle with President Trump after backing out of a contract to open a restaurant in the District’s Trump International Hotel — closed a number of his restaurants in the region.   Other restaurants opted to stay open with limited menu options because of staffing shortages. Many restaurants in the District still paid their employees if they decided to strike, while those that offer paid leave had employees take vacation days.  “It’s important,” said Jose Alexander, a barback at Lost Society steakhouse in the District who migrated from El Salvador in 2004. Lost Society closed Thursday, and Alexander said he still collected his pay. “It’s important so we can help our other family members arrive here.”  Some restaurants that stayed open advertised they would be donating some of their proceeds to immigrant advocacy organizations.  It was unclear how many people participated in the strike across the country, but Clarissa Martínez-de-Castro, deputy vice president at the National Council of La Raza — a national Latino advocacy organization — said the protest sent a strong message.  “In a time when the administration doesn’t seem to see anything positive about the immigrant community,” Martinez said, “having small-business owners, chefs and their workers challenge that notion and give voice to the very real ways immigrants contribute to society is very significant.”  How sanctuary cities are responding to Trump’s threat to defund them President Trump has threatened to go after sanctuary cities. This how state and local governments with sanctuary policies are responding to possible action. (Video: Claritza Jimenez/Photo: John Minchillo/The Washington Post) Critics of the strike said people who are in the country illegally should not be protected. Employers and participants in the strike did not distinguish between who is in the country legally and those who are undocumented.  As part of the strike, the nonprofit organization Many Languages One Voice organized a rally and march that shut down busy D.C. streets as hundreds marched from Washington’s Mount Pleasant neighborhood — which has a large Hispanic population — to the White House. The marchers held signs and chanted in English and Spanish, vowing to remain united.  “They will not build walls in our communities,” a large sign read.  They also called on D.C. government to keep raids out of the city and to provide more resources to ensure that the District protects undocumented residents. D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D) has vowed that Washington will remain a sanctuary city.  Organizers of the protests hailed the turnout as a success and hoped Trump recognized the economic impact of the boycott.   Andy Shallal, owner of Busboys and Poets. (Sarah L. Voisin/The Washington Post) “We know that the president speaks about immigrants and people of color like they’re disposable,” said Ray Jose, youth justice coordinator at Many Languages One Voice. “Immigrants are the backbone of this country, and Donald Trump needs to learn that.”  Hector Sepulveda, a D.C. real estate agent who moved from Chile in the 1990s, canceled business appointments and attended the rally with his 11-year-old daughter. After living through political unrest and the 1973 coup in Chile, he called what is happening in the United States “deja vu.”  “This is critical,” Sepulveda said. “Democracy seems like something that is routine, but right now it seems more authoritarian than democracy.”  Busboys and Poets owner Andy Shallal, an Iraqi immigrant and progressive activist, closed all six of his restaurants in the D.C. region. He said that it would be a “huge financial hit” that but as an immigrant who employs immigrants, it was an important stance to take.  “I’m an immigrant, so I have a bigger responsibility,” Shallal said.
32	adjudicated	1	Hollywood did not come to play as A-listers joined the masses for Families Belong Together rallies all across the nation. From New York City to Los Angeles, the immigration march comes in the wake of the Trump administration’s policy of separating families at the southern border — which has been weighing heavily on everyone’s minds as of late. Organizers estimated upwards of 75K supporters at Families Belong Together — Freedom for Immigrants March Los Angeles.  In Los Angeles, the streets of downtown were filled with protestors joined by actors such as Laura Dern, Mira Sorvino, Connie Britton as well as Vida showrunner Tanya Saracho and One Day at a Time showrunners Mike Royce & Gloria Calderon Kellett‏ and star Justina Machado. Writers and staff from latter two shows have been very vocal since the issue has become a hot-button topic in the past two weeks, urging their peers to donate to support legal services for detained separated parents and funding for their release.     RELATED STORY L.A. Immigrants March Joined By 'One Day At A Time' Stars, Laverne Cox, John Legend, 'Jane The Virgin' & 'Vida' Cast Also joining them were John Legend and Chrissy Teigen. Teigen gave a rousing speech before introducing Legend who played a rendition of Marvin Gaye’s “What’s Going On” and also debuted his new single “Preach.”  The actors in L.A. aren’t the only ones who took to the streets and to social media to show their support. In Washington D.C., Lin-Manuel Miranda, Alicia Keys, and America Ferrera represented, but it was Orange is the New Black star Diane Guerrero whose story hit closest to home as she spoke from experience, sharing her story of separated from her parents when they were deported. Miranda also sang a lullaby rendition of “Dear Theodosia” from Hamilton to kids whose parents were taken from them at the border.  Kerry Washington, Amy Schumer and Carrie Coon posted images and videos from the New York City march while Alec Baldwin and Ellen Page did the same.  Organizers estimated upwards of 75,000 supporters at the Families Belong Together – Freedom for Immigrants March in Los Angeles. Over 60,000 attended the march in Chicago, while  New York and San Francisco saw over 30,000 attendees and D.C. had over 35,000.  Actress Felicia Day took to the live streaming service Twitch TV with Jason Ritter and Nathan Fillion for a telethon of sorts, raising money for RAICES, a non-profit agency that provides legal services to immigrant/refugee families. They will be live until 9 PM PST.
33	adjudicated	1	BONITA SPRINGS, Fla. – A bicyclist was killed after he was hit by a school bus on Bonita Beach Road at Orr Road just east of I-75 early Thursday morning.  The crash happened around 4:30 a.m. when a school bus driver crashed into the back of the bicyclist who was riding in the outside lane of Bonita Beach Road, according to the Florida Highway Patrol.  The bicyclist later identified as a 59-year-old Estero man was thrown from the bike in the crash.  Troopers said the man was pronounced dead on scene. An incident report shows he was not wearing a helmet.  A 16-year-old Bonita Springs boy was on the bus at the time of the crash.  The bus driver was identified as a 53-year-old Fort Myers woman, according to FHP. Both the woman and the teen were uninjured in the incident.  A second bus later arrived on the scene to pick up the student, witnesses said. School officials said the student and the bus were headed to Dunbar High School.
34	adjudicated	4	Sandra Delgadillo of Roseville, marching downtown Saturday while visiting her father, repeatedly called out “the children are crying.”  Jessica Kane of La Mesa had her children wearing what resembled the reflective solar blankets given to migrant children at shelters after being separated from their parents.  “I think when people see it with my kids, it can remind them and hopefully touch their hearts,” Kane said.   Border Angels founder Enrique Morones called President Donald Trump "pure evil" in a talk at Waterfront Park. Border Angels founder Enrique Morones called President Trump “pure evil” in a talk at Waterfront Park. Photo by Chris Stone They were among several thousand demonstrators protesting President Trump’s immigration policies for a second week in a row at Waterfront Park adjacent to the County Administration Center.  The protest was one among hundreds of “Families Belong Together” rallies held in U.S. cities to criticize policies that led to the separation of several thousand families at the U.S.-Mexico border in recent weeks.   “The most important message is that we cannot be silent, that we need to rise up, we need to protest,” Enrique Morones, director of the San Diego-based immigration human rights organization Border Angels, told City News Service at Waterfront Park, where the downtown protest began. “A society is judged on how we treat our children. And what is taking place right now is horrific.”  The Trump administration in April enacted “zero-tolerance” policies that included separating children from their parents as they try to enter the United States.
35	adjudicated	3	HOMESTEAD, Fla. – Hundreds of U.S.-born citizens and immigrants marched through the streets of Homestead on Thursday as part of a nationwide Day Without Immigrants march in protest of President Donald Trump's immigration policies.  Immigrants boycotted school and work throughout the nation and in South Florida to take part in the march.  "This country represents, and always has, a beacon that people are drawn to for safety, for the ability to get ahead, to keep their family with them (and to) work hard," protester Jane Johnson said.  The march ended at City Hall, where demonstrators rallied for policy change regarding immigration. Many argue that it's become nearly impossible for immigrants to come to the U.S. legally.  Several businesses in the area closed for the day.  One protester said that without immigrants, the U.S. economy would suffer.  "We do many jobs that other people don't want to do, so why do you want to kick us out?" Catalina Perez said.  Protesters were expected to attend a special commission meeting Friday morning in downtown Miami, where commissioners will consider matters related to the county's controversial policies regarding immigration detainee requests from federal authorities.
36	adjudicated	4	Calling on President Donald Trump to reunite more than 2,000 immigrant children separated from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border, Bay Area  residents on Saturday joined hundreds of thousands of people across the nation to protest — some for the first time ever — a policy many say is a haunting reminder of America’s darkest moments in history.  Braving scorching heat, local protesters delivered a clear and loud message to the president: “families belong together.”  Wearing white clothing and with small children in tow, crowds also descended on the nation’s capital, at a detention center for migrant children in Texas and in downtown Los Ángeles, among more than 700 other locations.  San Jose: Jury issues $102.5 million award, blames school district for not stopping teacher’s sex abuse Descendants of Holocaust survivors and Japanese immigrants joined in solidarity across the nation, pointing to the stunning similarities between today’s climate and that which led to the World War II genocide of Jews and internment of Japanese-Americans.  For the many local protesters who had never marched before or held a poster in their hands, the audio and images of crying children begging for their parents marked a breaking point.  VIDEO: Scenes from San Francisco, Oakland, San Jose and Concord show thousands have come out in support of the Families Belong Together movement.  “I’ve been upset every day since I heard they were stealing people’s children,” said 53-year-old Suzanne Brown, who brought her 5-year-old daughter Anyssa to the San Francisco march. There, up to 20,000 people gathered at Mission Dolores Park and peacefully marched to Civic Center plaza.  Brown, a black Democrat who lives in Oakland, said she’s never marched before but when she heard the audio of detained children crying for their parents, she had to do something.   Christina Luna, 35, and her son Mateo, 7, came from San Martin to their first march ever in San Jose. Separating parents from children feels like an attack on families and “our spirit,” she said.  “I have children and to think about being separated from them is terrible,”  Luna said. “Just the trauma and the effect that’s going to have on them for the rest of their lives is terrible … I need to express my outrage somehow.”  There were no reported counter-protests at the many Bay Area rallies, but counter-protesters clashed with crowds in Los Angeles, Washington, D.C., Phoenix and Boston, among other cities.  Under Trump’s “zero tolerance” policy, which aims to prosecute anyone who illegally crosses the border, more than 2,000 children were separated from their parents, many sent to shelters for migrant children in different states across the country. The vast majority of the families fled violence and turmoil in Central America and are asking for asylum in the U.S.  Trump has since signed an executive order halting the separation of families and a federal judge this week ordered immigration officials to reunite all of the children with their parents in 30 days, or within 14 days if the children are younger than 6.  But even as they work to reunite these families, a recent court filing shows the Justice Department plans to keep migrant families in detention instead of releasing them as they work through immigration proceedings.  Trump doubled down on his call to rein in illegal immigration Saturday, tweeting, “When people come into our country illegally, we must IMMEDIATELY escort them back out without going through years of legal maneuvering. Our laws are the dumbest anywhere in the world.”   For San Jose resident Tomio Hayase-Izu, 25, the current political climate is reminiscent of the internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II.  “Even though it was a long time ago and some of the circumstances are different, there are a lot of parallels with today,” said Hayase-Izu, who attended the San Jose rally at City Hall with his father, where about 1,000 protesters took over the plaza.  “There are a lot of people that want to close their eyes and throw their heads in the sand and pretend all the racism in the past is gone and behind us. Once you start learning about what happened, it’s very easy for it to start happening again even if it’s under a different flag, under a different administration.”  A shadow of a protester during a "Families Belong Together" rally in San Jose, Calif., on Saturday, June 30, 2018. Several rallies were held across the country to protest family separation at the U.S.-Mexico border border under President Trump's "zero tolerance" policy. (Randy Vazquez/ Bay Area News Group) A shadow of a protester during a “Families Belong Together” rally in San Jose, Calif., on Saturday, June 30, 2018. Several rallies were held across the country to protest family separation at the U.S.-Mexico border under President Trump’s “zero tolerance” policy. (Randy Vazquez/ Bay Area News Group)                    It was a sentiment that echoed across Bay Area rallies, as protesters drew comparisons to internment camps of years past.  “This is happening again and we need to work together to make sure this stops and to make sure our history is being told, the history of the oppression of people of color,” said Tomoko Ha, an educator from Castro Valley who attended the Concord rally at Todos Santos Plaza with her 9-month-old son strapped to her chest. She held two signs, one which read: “Japanese Americans say NO to racism and xenophobia.”  Ha, who belongs to the Diablo Valley chapter of the national civil rights group Japanese American Citizens League, is also a new mother, so the issue hits especially close to home, she said.  “Just the idea of your child being taken away from you…” she said, looking away and her voice trailing off. “That’s saying to me that you’re not human and you’re less than. That’s the message that I get as a mom, that you have no regard for human life.”  Nearby, in Berkeley, state Sen. Nancy Skinner, D-Berkeley, called Trump’s executive order a “smokescreen.”  “What have we come to when we rip babies from their mother’s arms?” she said.  Many protesters said they won’t back down until all of the families are back together.  Kelly Flores, a biochemistry student at UC Davis, attended the rally with her cousin, Monika Infante, a psychology student at Sonoma State University. It was the first time Flores participated in any type of demonstration, but Infante said she’s been involved in anti-Trump protests at her school.  “I’m Latina so I take this really personally,” Flores said. “I remember when I was younger and I was traumatized by (ICE) coming to Concord. I can’t imagine these kids being separated from their parents and not know if they’ll ever be reunited.”  Infante said she felt compelled to speak up on behalf of her community. Her own parents immigrated from Oaxaca, she said.  “You know how immigrants have a fear of speaking up? I don’t have that fear,” Infante said. “I have to speak up for my own people.”  Staff writers Seung Lee and Khalida Sarwari contributed. Check back later for updates.
37	adjudicated	2	Carrying signs reading "Welcome Immigrants," and "No Hate, No Wall," protesters gathered in downtown Pensacola on Thursday.  The group started with about a dozen protesters but the crowd swelled to nearly 50 within 15 minutes as passersby joined their cause. They were met with honks and waves and peace signs from some of those who drove by them at the intersection of Garden and Palafox Streets.  RELATED CONTENT  Protests against Trump's immigration plan rolling in more than 30 cities  Deni Avelar, a student at the University of West Florida, said her parents came to the United States from Mexico. The family now lives in Destin and knows many immigrants who work in the hotel, restaurant and construction industries in that area.  "Most of them are not working today to show their support," Avelar said.  A social media movement asked foreign-born U.S. residents to stay home Thursday as part of nationwide "day without immigrants."  The movement formed in protest to President's Donald Trumps plans for a massive wall along the U.S./ Mexico border and his executive order restricting immigration from some countries.   Anne Austin, a Pensacola grandmother, said she had never joined in public protests before Trump took office. She took part in the march for women in downtown Pensacola last month and joined in Thursday's protest as well.  "I guess this election has gotten me off my behind," she said.  Austin said her daughter-in-law is from Colombia and that her 7-year-old grandson, who is a legal U.S. citizen, has told her that he is worried about Trump "separating families."  "I am out here today for him," she said.
38	adjudicated	4	From morning through evening Saturday, local residents gathered at five Families Belong Together rallies across Ventura County as hundreds of similar events took place across the country.  Signs, chants and cheers energized those who turned out to protest immigration policy that has separated an estimated 2,000 children from their parents after they crossed the U.S.-Mexico border without legal permission.  Some at the Ventura County rallies were immigrants or children of immigrants. Some were grandparents, military veterans, students or citizens impassioned to take a stand. Events in Oxnard, Thousand Oaks, Ojai, Ventura and Camarillo brought them out starting at 10 a.m. and kept some going past 6:30 p.m.  Saturday's protests across the nation:
39	adjudicated	4	Sandra Velez Trejo pushed her infant son's stroller with one hand and raised a sign with the other Thursday as she walked to the Iowa Capitol in Des Moines.  She was one of the thousands of immigrants and supporters who took part in a march to call attention to the positive roles immigrants play in Iowa and the country. Protesters participated in Day Without Immigrants events across the nation, ranging from marches to boycotts of work and school.  “As an immigrant, I am asking for unity and respect. No family separations,” her hand-written sign read.  Velez Trejo arrived in Iowa from Ecuador in 1998. She lived as an undocumented immigrant for 18 years before receiving a visa for victims of physical and mental abuse in 2015 that granted her legal residency. Velez Trejo said her former boyfriend abused her for years, but she did not report it to police, fearing she would be deported.  Sandra Velez Trejo earned her citizenship through a special visa for victims of domestic abuse. One shouldn’t have to be a victim of a crime in order to find a road to obtain some type of citizenship,” Trejo said. “One shouldn't have to be a victim of a crime in order to find a road to obtain some type of citizenship,” she said.  The march in Des Moines drew more that 2,500, according to Manuel Galvez, the editor of the Iowa City-based newspaper El Trueque, who helped organize the event. In addition, about 70 Latino businesses in Des Moines closed for the day to show solidarity with the marchers.   The Urban Grill and District 36 restaurants closed their doors Thursday because they did not have enough kitchen staffers to open. Jean Thompson, one of the restaurants' owners, said the loss of revenue would be a financial hit for the business, but she supports her workers.  “We don’t talk about politics at the restaurant,” Thompson said. “But we wholeheartedly support our staff, their families and their community.   10 thing to know about the impact of immigrants on the U.S. workforce  Approximately 12 million people are employed in the restaurant industry in the United States, and immigrants make up the majority, according to the Restaurant Opportunities Centers United. An estimated 1.3 million in the industry are immigrants living in the U.S. illegally, the group said.  Adriana Angel joined the march, which started at a small plaza ringed by Latino-owned businesses near the intersection of East Grand Avenue and East 15th Street.   She was born in California but raised in Jalisco, Mexico, after her parents returned to Mexico when her father lost his job. She returned to the U.S. to pursue work and is trying to bring her parents to Iowa.  “I’m trying to get my parents here the legal way, but the process has been stalled so long,” Angel said.  Organizers wearing safety vests directed marchers to walk silently to the Capitol, but drivers along Grand Avenue honked their horns and played Latin music, spurring cheers from the crowd.   Brothers Apolinar Sanchez, 16, and Anthony Sanchez, 15, skipped school to join their parents on the Capitol steps. Both said they have heard derogatory remarks aimed at Latinos at school, but being part of Thursday’s demonstration made them feel proud.   “We came so our voices could be heard and to know we’re not alone,” Apolinar Sanchez said.  Des Moines Public Schools, the most diverse district in the metro, recently declared itself a “sanctuary” district, which bars staff from asking about students' immigration status and funnels federal inquiries through the superintendent's office and district attorney. Approximately 25 percent of the district's 33,000 students are Latino, and about 4,000 students were born outside the U.S.   There were 3,851 absences on Thursday, about 2,200 more than a typical school day, according to district spokeswoman Amanda Lewis. But that increase could be for a number of reasons, including the opening day of the state wrestling tournament.  Students who missed school without a "legitimate reason" would receive an unexcused absence, according to a district letter to parents.  Robert Vandervoort, a disabled Vietnam War veteran and maintenance worker for St. Ambrose Catholic Church, brought his grandchildren to the march to show solidarity with the immigrant community.  He said he's concerned about the growing animosity being drawn along racial and ethnic lines.  “I fought alongside Mexicans and blacks, and we had a God-fearing country at that time. It’s not that way anymore,” Vandervoort said. “We’re being hostile toward everyone our president doesn’t like. And it’s gotta stop.”   National Day Without Immigrants organizers urged legal residents as well as undocumented ones to participate in the boycott in response to President Donald Trump's crackdown on immigration. Among the White House actions rankling protesters are plans to build a border wall, install a temporary immigration ban on nationals from certain Muslim-majority nations, boost patrol agents to curb illegal immigration and strip federal funding from sanctuary cities that limit cooperation with immigration agents.
40	adjudicated	4	When Yana Jacinto came to this country as a 5-year-old, she came illegally with her parents.  Now, the dental assistant is an American citizen. She wants her U.S.-born teenage children to understand what being an immigrant means for them and for the country.  "It's important to know where we came from," the east-side resident said.  Jacinto brought her mom, Marta, and her two children to Garfield Park on Thursday afternoon to march in support of a "Day Without Immigrants," a nationwide protest in which immigrants planned to stay home from work and school to demonstrate to the nation how vital they are to the U.S. economy.  "We want them to hear our voice; we’re all united," Jacinto said. “It’s not enough, but it’s so important for them to know that we are hard working. We’re all good people. We’re just here to show that.”   More than 250 people, many families with young children, met at the south-side park to begin a 3.5-mile trek to the Indiana Statehouse, chanting "Si! Se puede!" ("Yes! We can!") at times, holding signs and responding to horns honking from passing cars.  One woman held a sign that read: "We don't run America, but we make America run." Another said: "Undocumented, Unafraid and Unapologetic." Children held signs, too: "I'm a human being" and "Immigrants make America great."   "We thought it would be important to have a march to show that we will no longer tolerate the criminalization and the dehumanization of our community," said Guadalupe Pimentel, a legal assistant with the law firm Muñoz Legal and one of the local march's organizers. "This is a peaceful march. We're the sleeping giant. It is a nation built by immigrants. You might not see us, but we're here."  Viviana Torres, 6, Indianapolis, during the march and rally. Across the nation thousands of protesters took part in similar events, USA TODAY reported, galvanized in opposition to President Donald Trump's crackdown on immigration. Among the White House actions rankling protesters are plans to build a border wall, install a temporary immigration ban on nationals from certain Muslim-majority nations, boost patrol agents to curb illegal immigration and strip federal funding from sanctuary cities that limit cooperation with immigration agents.   Pimentel said the Indianapolis march was created by a few individuals and organizations, but no one took the lead over another. She hoped passers-by would see the number of people marching and realize the effect the immigrant community has on Indianapolis.  "We like to show off our Hoosier hospitality, and sometimes our legislation doesn't show that," she said.  Shawn Smith, an equipment operator on the east side, felt the absence of immigrants Thursday. About 1 p.m., he parked in an empty parking lot at Mexican grocery store Carniceria Guanajuato. A sign written in Spanish on the door notified customers that the store would be closed to observe the protest and encouraged immigrants to do the same.  Smith goes to the restaurant inside the store at least twice a week to get a burrito for lunch.  He said he understands the message of the marchers.  "I salute them, and I understand their cause and their stand," he said. "They're going to make a big impact."  According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the U.S. labor force in 2015 included 26.3 million foreign-born persons, nearly 17 percent of the total workforce.  Amy Sawyer, who lives on East Street, came out of her house to support the marchers. Seventeen-year-old Roxana Juarez's parents dropped her off at the march with two of her friends and planned to meet her later at the Statehouse. Juarez's mom works in a factory, and her dad is a cook at a nearby Mexican restaurant. The two supported her decision to stay home from school, she said.  "I just want to stand up for immigrants, to show that we do make an impact and to show what it would be like if we we weren't here," she said. "It will start to show people that we matter. This is just the beginning."  Juarez was far from the only teenager at the event. Her peers are so interested in protesting, she said, because of how much immigration policies directly affect them.  "It's our future," she said. "We care about it."  "Day Without Immigrants" participants gather. Marco Garcia, another high school student, also marched with friends.  "I'm here to protest with the rest of the Hispanic community," the 17-year-old Northwest High School student said. "And to stand for our rights with the rights that we have. We have our right to speak."  USA TODAY contributed to this story.
41	adjudicated	3	PASADENA >> Demonstrators created a different sort of parade down Colorado Boulevard on Saturday than the kind that people usually associate with the City of Roses.  Coming together as part of a network of ationwide #FamiliesBelongTogether protests aimed at reuniting immigrant children and their parents separated by U.S. immigration authorities at the border, protesters gathered at Pasadena City College. Pasadena police officials estimated the turnout at about 500.  Previous                                          Next 1 of 20 A large crowd for the “Families Belong Together” protest gathered outside of Pasadena City College to demonstrate against the Tump administration’s immigration policy, in Pasadena, Calif. on Saturday, June 30, 2018. The protest outside of PCC is one of hundreds like it happening nationwide. (Correspondent photo by Trevor Stamp)  Demonstrators, toting homemade signs and chanting such slogans as “families united will never be divided” and “we will remember; midterm November,” perched on and around the steps of Sexson Auditorium in the almost-July noonday sun.  AJ Pollock, Eddy Alvarez hit home runs in Dodgers’ rout of Guardians Following a series of speakers, marchers strode in 80-degree heat on the two-mile trek from the school to Pasadena City Hall. Once there, marchers and organizers were informed that a prior permit holder had reserved the exterior of City Hall. Unbowed, on they walked to the city’s Public Library, not far away.  Sign up for The Localist, our daily email newsletter with handpicked stories relevant to where you live. Subscribe here. There, Senator state Sen. Anthony Portantino (D-San Dimas) addressed the crowd. “From Pasadena to Burbank to Claremont to Washington, our values matter,” Portantino said, “What affects one of us affects all of us. Today we speak with one voice across California, across America.”  No counterprotesters were visible at the rally, but earlier this week Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, known as FAIR, said the laws regarding minors showing up to the border to claim asylum are flawed, adding that countries must take more responsibility in serving their citizens.  Related: Tens of thousands march through Downtown L.A. and around Southern California  “It is just not feasible for the United States to be expected to provide for every person who is living in a country whose government is either so corrupt that it just doesn’t care or so incompetent that it can’t protect and serve their basic interest,” Mehlman said. “At some point these countries have to take responsibility.”   RELATED ARTICLES Court says ICE can’t detain immigrants based on poverty Many in Mideast see ‘amazing hypocrisy’ in embrace of Ukraine Mexico deports border hit-man gang leader to US US seeks regional approach to migration and asylum seekers More Russians find ways around sweeping US asylum limits “We are here because the truth demands our attention,” said Hilda Coleman, a student at Pasadena City College and the organizer of this march, during her speech. “Why are we marching? It’s to end family separation. It’s to reunify those kids who are scared, and the 482 babies under the age of five who have been separated from their parents. It’s to end family detention because children do not belong in detention centers.”  “I can’t sleep at night,” said Sheri Bonner, the CEO of Planned Parenthood Pasadena. “Can you sleep at night? There are many people who do not have their children with them. Can you imagine them sleeping at night?” Bonner said, “We’re not talking about citizen versus non-citizen rights. We’re talking about human rights. We must stand with families.”  Organizers expressed gratitude for the size and motivation of the crowd.  “I can’t tell you how proud I am,” said Fatima Cristerna-Adame, the Southern California managing regional director for the California Charter Schools Association, speaking through tears. “I will sleep knowing that I have warriors behind me.”  EDITOR’S NOTE: This article has been edited to correct the turnout estimates.
42	adjudicated	1	Immigrants across the country are expected to stay home from school and work on Thursday to show how critical they are to the U.S. economy and way of life.  "A Day Without Immigrants" actions are planned in cities including Philadelphia, Washington, Boston, Houston, Chicago and New York. The protest gained momentum on social media and by word of mouth.  In south Louisiana, Ideal Market, a popular Latin grocery store chain, has announced it's shuttering its stores Thursday. Ideal has locations in New Orleans and Baton Rouge.  The movement comes in response to President Donald Trump, whose administration has pledged to increase the deportation of immigrants living in the country illegally. Trump campaigned on building a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border, and blamed high unemployment on immigration. As president, he's called for a ban on people from seven Muslim-majority countries from coming into the U.S.   Organizers expect thousands of people to participate or show solidarity with workers.
43	adjudicated	3	PLEASANTON, CA — More than 600 people turned out Saturday to take part in the 'Families Belong Together' rally held at Lion Wayside Park in Pleasanton, according to Tri Valley Progressives for Our Revolution. More than 400 people turned out in Dublin and 350 participated in the Livermore rally. The Pleasanton event was one of 700 planned nationwide. Rabbi Larry Milder, Congregation Beth Emek, Pleasanton Mayor Jerry Thorne, Spojmie Nasiri, Immigration Attorney/Muslim Community Center East Bay, Sammy Jo Rudy, on behalf of Congressman Eric Swalwell, resident Julie Testa, Tri­-Valley NAMI (National Alliance on Mental Illness), Felicitas Bejarnaro, Counselor, Arushi Avachat, Founder, Students for Social Change, and Father Kwame Assenjoh, Associate Pastor, Catholic Community of Pleasanton shared their immigration stories, and urged attendees to vote this November. Activists shared their list of demands: Reunite families now. Permanently end family separation and immediately reunify those that have been separated. ICE must release parents immediately so that ORR can reunify them with their children. End family detention. Children and families deserve due process, not indefinite imprisonment. Children do not belong in baby cages and internment-like camps. Family incarceration is not the solution to family separation. End 'Zero Humanity.' Reverse the Trump administration's policy that created this crisis and chaos to begin with. Parents should not be criminally prosecuted for doing what all parents do, which is bring their children to safety. This horrible nightmare for families will only end when Trump permanently stops his 100% prosecution policy. Photos courtesy Tri Valley Progressives for Our Revolution
44	adjudicated	4	Sandra Delgadillo of Roseville, marching downtown Saturday while visiting her father, repeatedly called out “the children are crying.”  Jessica Kane of La Mesa had her children wearing what resembled the reflective solar blankets given to migrant children at shelters after being separated from their parents.  “I think when people see it with my kids, it can remind them and hopefully touch their hearts,” Kane said.   Border Angels founder Enrique Morones called President Donald Trump "pure evil" in a talk at Waterfront Park. Border Angels founder Enrique Morones called President Trump “pure evil” in a talk at Waterfront Park. Photo by Chris Stone They were among several thousand demonstrators protesting President Trump’s immigration policies for a second week in a row at Waterfront Park adjacent to the County Administration Center.  The protest was one among hundreds of “Families Belong Together” rallies held in U.S. cities to criticize policies that led to the separation of several thousand families at the U.S.-Mexico border in recent weeks.   “The most important message is that we cannot be silent, that we need to rise up, we need to protest,” Enrique Morones, director of the San Diego-based immigration human rights organization Border Angels, told City News Service at Waterfront Park, where the downtown protest began. “A society is judged on how we treat our children. And what is taking place right now is horrific.”  The Trump administration in April enacted “zero-tolerance” policies that included separating children from their parents as they try to enter the United States.  Story continues below   A nurse shows her support for keeping immigrant families united during a march near Waterfront Park in San Diego.A nurse shows her support for keeping immigrant families united during a march near Waterfront Park in San Diego. Photo by Chris Stone  Women and children lead a protest against immigration policy in downtown San Diego.Women and children lead a protest against immigration policy in downtown San Diego. Photo by Chris Stone  A young girl protests immigration policy in downtown San Diego.A young girl protests immigration policy in downtown San Diego. Photo by Chris Stone  Children protested alongside their family members in downtown San Diego.Children protested alongside their family members in downtown San Diego. Photo by Chris Stone  A protester shouts and records a talk by Border Angels founder Enrique Morones.A protester shouts and records a talk by Border Angels founder Enrique Morones. Photo by Chris Stone  Raul, 4, said, "Families should be together," as he carried a sign.Raul, 4, said, “Families should be together,” as he carried a sign. Photo by Chris Stone  Thousands of people gathered in downtown San Diego to protest immigration policy.Thousands of people gathered in downtown San Diego to protest immigration policy. Photo by Chris Stone  A protestor applauds remarks by Border Angel founder Enrique Morones at a Families Belong Together rally a Waterfront Park.A protester applauds remarks by Border Angel founder Enrique Morones at a Families Belong Together rally a Waterfront Park. Photo by Chris Stone  Children joined their families in protesting parent-child separation.Children joined their families in protesting parent-child separation. Photo by Chris Stone  Protestors carry their homemade signs to protest immigration policy.Protesters carry their homemade signs to protest immigration policy. Photo by Chris Stone  A young boy holds his handmade sign while on the shoulders of a man during the march.A young boy holds his handmade sign while on the shoulders of a man during last Saturday’s march. Photo by Chris Stone  A man wearing a Donald Trump mark and striped clothing participates in the Families Belong Together march.A man wearing a Donald Trump mark and striped clothing takes part in the Families Belong Together march. Photo by Chris Stone  A lone counter-protestor talks to marchers at Waterfront Park before the march.A lone counter-protester talks to marchers at Waterfront Park before the march. Photo by Chris Stone  Thousands of people at Waterfront Park show their handmade signs protesting immigration policy.Thousands of people at Waterfront Park show their handmade signs protesting immigration policy. Photo by Chris Stone  Young people at Waterfront Park remind people of the power of the young vote.Young people at Waterfront Park remind people of the power of the young vote. Photo by Chris Stone  Thousands of people gathered at Waterfront Park to protest immigration policy.Thousands of people gathered at Waterfront Park to protest immigration policy. Photo by Chris Stone  A protestor signals his approval at a Families Belong Together rally at Waterfront Park in San Diego.A protester signals his approval at a Families Belong Together rally at Waterfront Park in San Diego. Photo by Chris Stone  A sign with a doll surrounded by wire was carried by a protester.A sign with a doll surrounded by wire was carried by a protester. Photo by Chris Stone On June 20, the president signed an executive order reversing the family separation part of the policy, but keeping in place the administration’s intent to prosecute anyone caught entering the United States illegally, meaning that children and their parents will be detained together.  Trump addressed the issue on Twitter Saturday afternoon.   “When people come into our Country illegally, we must IMMEDIATELY excort them back out without going through years of legal maneuvering,” the president tweeted. “Our laws are the dumbest anywhere in the world. Republicans want Strong Borders and no Crime. Dems want Open Borders and are weak on Crime!”  Listen: Audio of Border Angels director Enrique Morones at Waterfront Park Tanya Benitez, who was at the event volunteering with Border Angels, said she was impressed and encouraged by the number of people who showed up.  GET TIMES OF SAN DIEGO DAILY BY EMAIL Enter your email  Subscribe By clicking subscribe, you agree to share your email address with Times of San Diego to receive a free newsletter with the latest local news delivered at 8 a.m. daily. You can opt out at any time via an unsubscribe link. “You can see a lot of unity here,” she said. “It’s definitely amazing just to see it and it feels really good.”  Other San Diego-area communities hosting protests included Carlsbad, El Cajon, National City and Ramona, as well as Calexico in Imperial County.  At the Carlsbad protest in Cannon Park, the atmosphere was tense as police posted signs warning that a permit had not been issued for the protest, and anyone participating in an event of 50 or more people could be arrested.   Organizer Robin Mastro told The San Diego Union-Tribune that she received a letter from the city attorney saying she, too, could be arrested if the protest were held.  “They said they could arrest me even at my home,” Mastro told the newspaper.  Carlsbad sent out a pair of tweets during the protest.  “Lots of confusion about sign at Cannon Park. Organizers didn’t get a permit but we respect your right to protest. The goal is to keep everyone safe,” one said.  The second tweet thanked demonstrators.   “Protest is peaceful and lawful,” it said.  A few counter-protesters were gathered at the Carlsbad protest, according to the Union-Tribune, including one man who held up a sign that read “No border no country” on one side and “Long Live ICE” on the other.  Last week, similar protests were held downtown and at the Otay Mesa Detention Facility, where some migrants were being detained. Six people were arrested at the Otay Mesa protest last Saturday.  Border Angels founder Morones, at the downtown rally, introduced himself as a native San Diegan “and a very proud 100 percent Mexicano.”  He labeled Trump “pure evil” and connected family separation to the larger issue of refugees worldwide.   In calling for a moment of silence, he said: “Let’s think about the 8,000 migrants that died last year crossing borders — most of them crossing from Africa to Europe and Middle East into Europe.”  More than 11,000 immigrants have died on the U.S.-Mexico border, he said, “because of that wall.”  He promoted Border Angels, which places water in the desert the third Saturday of every month (including November 2016, when 500 volunteers showed up — ten times the normal turnout — “because people are outraged”).  Morone mentioned his weekly podcast.  “I know how to pronounce it,” he said. “It’s called Bad Hombre. I’m a bad hombre. My partner said: ‘What about me?’ I said have no fear. So now we have bad mujer (woman). This is the Year of the Mujer.”   He encouraged his fellow Bernie Sanders backers to vote because “a lot of people didn’t vote in 2016. Now look where we are. We can never, ever let it happen again.”  Morones closed by leading the familiar chant — in English and Spanish — “The people, united, will never be divided” — “El pueblo, unido, jamás será vencido.”  — City News Service contributed to this report.
45	adjudicated	2	At least three local restaurants closed Thursday as part of a national effort to recognize the importance of immigrants to the U.S. workforce.  Mi Tierra on Route 9 in Hadley and Bueno y Sano and Paul & Elizabeth's, both in downtown Northampton, were shuttered as part of an action called "A Day Without Immigrants"  Mi Tierra owners Jorge Sosa, an immigrant from Mexico, and Dora Saravia, who immigrated from El Salvador, posted the importance of closing on their restaurant’s Facebook page.  "We understand that nothing will have any effect if we don't stay together,” they wrote. “I hope all of you understand."  Bueno y Sano, meanwhile, put on its Twitter feed that the Northampton and West Springfield locations would not open.  "Northampton and W. Springfield Buenos are closed today in observance of the Day Without Immigrants, to encourage awareness and support."  Bueno owner Bob Lowry said the action was an important issue for some of his staff, and that he accepted the decisions of those who took the day off.  "I just immediately got in the mode that what you guys need to do is completely fine," Lowry said.  Some at the Amherst location were less interested in making a statement and so that Bueno remained open.  Paul & Elizabeth's put up sign in its Thorne’s marketplace site that the closing was needed to support and show solidarity for staff and the restaurant community, with an intent to reopen for regular business Friday.  La Veracruzana kept its Northampton and Amherst locations open, in part because of the snowstorms that owner Martin Carrera said had affected business in recent days. But not because he is not sympathetic to showcasing how immigrants are an important part of the American economy.  "That doesn't mean me and my employees don't believe in what is happening," Carrera said. "In order to have comprehensive immigration reform, you need to really ask yourself what we're going to do with 12 million who don’t have documents; deporting them is not the answer.”  Carrera said it would be inhumane to remove so many people, especially after they have been given a tacit blessing to start businesses, and those who are undocumented aren't just restaurant workers and hotel maids, but businesspeople, scientists, doctoral students and developers for Google and Apple.
46	adjudicated	4	Roughly 400 people took to the intersection of Artesia and Hawthorne Boulevard Saturday morning, joining a nationwide protest against zero-tolerance federal immigration practices that have led to the separation of children from families.  Protestors stood at each corner, and along each median, waving signs, chanting, and cheering when supporters (whether from cars or LA Metro buses) passed by, sounding their horns.  Though detractors were apparent, such as a man who shouted “if they don’t cross the border, families won’t be separated! Respect our laws!” from his car, they were soon ignored.  The protest was organized by Kanji Sahara, an 84-year-old man who was held in a Japanese internment camp in Arkansas at eight years old, alongside his family. The Saharas were among the 110,000 to 120,000 Japanese-Americans who were incarcerated following the Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbor and subsequent Executive Order 9066 by President Franklin D. Roosevelt.  “They’re separating the babies from the parents, and putting them in a camp. During World War II, I was imprisoned in a concentration camp in southeast Arkansas, and last week, the federal government went to Arkansas for a site to place children about two miles away from where I was imprisoned,” Sahara said. “That’s why I felt we needed this.”  Torrance Mayor Pat Furey was among the elected leaders who came to show their support to the protestors.  “I worked for more than two decades, prosecuting people who inflicted damages to their children, and here we have the government inflicting damages on our children,” Furey said. “It’s only through gatherings like this that the world will understand that it’s not the people of America, it’s the current administration.”  Assemblyman Al Muratsuchi was also in attendance for the action that ran from 11 a.m. to noon, rallying the crowd.  “The one thing we can all agree on that Donald Trump has done is to make it stark-clear that elections matter,” Muratsuchi said. “California is showing the rest of the world how to get things done. We have the world’s fifth largest economy, we’re growing faster and creating more jobs than the rest of the country, and standing up for progressive values.  “California is the great counter-example to what Trump stands for, and we need to continue to lead by example.”
47	adjudicated	3	Select business owners in Anne Arundel County closed their doors Thursday in solidarity with a nationwide movement that supports the contributions immigrants have on the country's economy.  The protest, called Day Without Immigrants, was in response to President Donald Trump's stance on immigration, specifically his pledge to increase the deportation of illegal immigrants, his plans to build a wall between Mexico and the U.S., and his signing of the executive order that banned entry from citizens from seven Muslim-majority nations.  The goal of the grassroots movement was to show the impact immigrants have on U.S. businesses. Immigrants were asked to stay home from work and school, close their businesses and avoid shopping.  "This is a nation of immigrants and our commitment to the (Hispanic) community is huge," said Roxana Rodriguez, owner of Caliente Grill. "We're immigrants ourselves."  &#039;Day Without Immigrants&#039; protest closes many U.S. restaurants LETTERS 'Day Without Immigrants' protest closes many U.S. restaurants  FEB 16, 2017 AT 7:20 PM The Annapolis restaurant decided to close Thursday because most of its employees are Hispanic immigrants, Rodriguez said. This is the first time the business has closed on a work day since opening three years ago.  She added that even though it's "tough" to lose business, it was more important to show support and "be one." Many of Rodriguez's employees didn't plan to send their children to school Thursday, she said.  [Most read] Former Anne Arundel County school employee gets 45-year sentence in fourth sexual abuse case » "I know that if we said we're going to work, they would be here," Rodriguez said of her employees. "This is us letting them know we also care for them."  The Glen Burnie restaurant Tijuana Tacos was closed Thursday, according to its Facebook page. The business thanked customers for supporting the area's immigrant population.  "Together we will make the difference for a better tomorrow," the restaurant wrote in Spanish.  Corazon Latino Hair Salon in Laurel was also closed and wrote in Spanish on its Facebook page: "Mr. President, without us and our contribution this country is paralyzed."  In Baltimore, many popular restaurants closed their doors and participated in the protest. The businesses included: Alma Cocina Latina, Cafe Cito, Ekiben, The Local Fry, Dovecote Cafe, Sweet27, and Alkimia and Azafran on Johns Hopkins University's Homewood campus.  [Most read] High school sports roundup (March 30) » The Foreman Wolf restaurant group — with properties including Bar Vasquez, Charleston, Cinghiale, Johnny's and Petit Louis Bistro — also closed for the day.  "We will not operate today in support of our staff without whom it would be impossible to operate at all. #adaywithoutimmigrants," Foreman Wolf restaurants posted on their Facebook pages Thursday.  Walter Vasquez, a prominent restaurateur and business owner in the county, closed down his two Sin Fronteras restaurants and three Isaula's barber shops in observance of the day.  Annapolis City Council passes non-discrimination bill ANNAPOLIS Annapolis City Council passes non-discrimination bill  FEB 13, 2017 AT 10:47 PM With locations stretching from Annapolis to Glen Burnie, Vazquez said his employees had asked him to support their decision to participate in the protest.  "For me, my employees, they are my No. 1 tool. My business(es), without my employees, could not operate," he said.  [Most read] Meade brings passionate native home as Tanardo Sharps becomes new head football coach » Vasquez is known in Annapolis' Hispanic community as a leading voice in calling for more Latino representation in city government.  He supports his employees' cause but backed away from criticizing Trump. While many in the Hispanic community see the president's rhetoric and policies as disparaging toward Hispanics, Vasquez said it's "too early to be judging" the new president.  "When there's a change of the administration in any country, specifically when they have two parties, there's always … changes that take place," Vasquez said. "At this point, we have to give him a chance."  Vasquez embraces immigrants "who come to work and get integrated" into American culture.  "Those are the ones I support," he said.
48	adjudicated	4	Protesters in Riverside and San Bernardino joined others across the nation Saturday, June 30 calling for reuniting families separated at the border and an end to the separation of immigrant families at the border.  Lecia Elzig, of Riverside, organized a protest at the Galleria at Tyler in Riverside which attracted more than 1,200 people with a line that ran along Tyler Street from the 91 Freeway to Magnolia Avenue.  “We saw a lot of people who were energized to make a statement to make their feelings known about this,” she said. “A lot of young people, a lot of families, lots of babies in strollers. It’s inspiring to see the diversity of people who came out for this.”  Previous                      Next 1 of 10 Rosa Gascoigne, of Beaumont, holds her signs, as she participates in the nationwide protest against the policy of separating children from their families at the border, on Tyler Street near the Galleria at Tyler in Riverside on Saturday, June 30, 2018. (Photo by Jennifer Cappuccio Maher, Inland Valley Daily Bulletin/SCNG)  Roxane Barraza, of Redlands, organized the San Bernardino event held in front of a Department of Homeland Security office on Rialto Avenue.  AJ Pollock, Eddy Alvarez hit home runs in Dodgers’ rout of Guardians Barraza said this is the first rally she has organized. The mother of a 1-year-old, she was moved by audio recordings from a Texas detention center.  “Hearing those babies cry hit this primal part of my brain,” she said. “I can’t just sit on my couch and read about this.”  Previous                                                    Next 1 of 25 Subhash Arora protests in the middle of W. Rialto Avenue as approximately 450 others protesters look on as a part of the Families Belong Together rally outside the office of Homeland Security in San Bernardino on Saturday, June 30, 2018. The peaceful group gathered in support of immigrant families that have been separated by federal agents under U.S. policy. Photo by Will Lester, Inland Valley Daily Bulletin/SCNG)  At it’s peak about 450 protesters gathered on sidewalks on either side of the street waving signs and American flags, shouting slogans like “Free the kids” and “We do care,” and encouraging drivers to honk.  Related: Tens of thousands of protesters march in Downtown L.A. and around Southern California  And honk they did. At some points the sound was deafening: honking from pickup trucks to a San Bernardino County Fire ladder truck, megaphones, chanting, hand-held noisemakers and whistles.   Little was heard in the way of counter protests at either rally besides a stray loudly revved engine or obscene hand gesture. Earlier this week Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, known as FAIR, said the laws regarding minors showing up to the border to claim asylum are flawed, adding that countries must take more responsibility in serving their citizens.  “It is just not feasible for the United States to be expected to provide for every person who is living in a country whose government is either so corrupt that it just doesn’t care or so incompetent that it can’t protect and serve their basic interest,” Mehlman said. “At some point these countries have to take responsibility.”   San Bernardino residents Fernando and Elizabeth Rocha brought their triplets in a stroller with three placards that read “Families” “Belong” “Together.”  RELATED ARTICLES Court says ICE can’t detain immigrants based on poverty Many in Mideast see ‘amazing hypocrisy’ in embrace of Ukraine Mexico deports border hit-man gang leader to US US seeks regional approach to migration and asylum seekers More Russians find ways around sweeping US asylum limits “This is one of the things, as a veteran, you end up fighting for: freedom to protest, freedom to voice an opinion,” said Fernando Rocha who served five years in the U.S. Army. “Even if you disagree with someone you have every right to voice your opinion.”  Laura Preciado of Banning held a sign reading “This is our home” high above her head while wearing a thin silver blanket as a cape.  “This is what they cover the little kids with,” she said, gesturing to the thin material. She was referring to blankets give to children at detention centers.  As the San Bernardino rally wound down in the early afternoon Ashley Loera of Fontana and Jacob Chatterton of Rialto were among several protesters picking up trash along the roadside.  Sign up for The Localist, our daily email newsletter with handpicked stories relevant to where you live. Subscribe here. Chatterton said he just wanted to “leave the place better than when you came in.”  He put his arm around Loera.  “My dad came over here as an immigrant and he went through such treacherous land just to give me an amazing life here,” she said. “For me not to be here would be to abandon everything he believed in. I need to be here.”
49	adjudicated	4	On a normal Thursday, the aisles of E & L Supermercado in southwest Detroit are usually busy with shoppers.  The popular grocery store on W. Vernor Hwy is known for its diverse selection of items, including marinated meats in a 16-foot wide butcher's counter that many Mexican-Americans flock to.  But today, the doors were shut at the store on W. Vernor Hwy as were about 100 other businesses along the commercial strip in Detroit's Mexicantown and in other Latino neighborhoods in southeastern Michigan. Concerned about what they see as increasing attacks on immigrants and Latinos, they joined protesters across the U.S. who marched or shut down businesses to take a stand on what they called a "Day Without Immigrants."  Waving American flags and holding signs that read "Stop Deportations" and "Stop Separating Families," hundreds walked along Vernor through southwest Detroit. Some chanted "Si, se puede," (Yes, we can) as they spoke out against what they say is a crackdown against immigrants and discrimination against Mexican-Americans.   And in Pontiac, about 500 people rallied this morning, marching from a local park to City Hall. Many were protesting what they describe as aggressive sweeps of Hispanic residents by Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents in recent weeks.  From Ypsilanti to Detroit to Pontiac, restaurants, car dealerships and groceries closed their doors to send a message of support to immigrants, said organizers. Others gathered in Clark Park in southwest Detroit in the heart of the city's Mexican-American community to call for respect of their rights. And some students didn't attend school today, instead taking part in the protests.  Also read:   National Day Without a Woman set for March 8  Many of the businesses shut down today were run by Latinos and immigrants, some of whom feel under siege after executive orders on immigration recently signed by President Donald Trump. They're also unnerved by reports over the past week of raids against undocumented immigrants by federal immigration agents.   We "demand respect for our rights and to unite the immigrant communities," said Maria Sanchez, who helped organize the march in Detroit.  "We're very worried for the families who are being separated and for the pain that families are going through."  “The goal for today is for the President to notice how important Immigrants are for the country and for the economy and how bad it would be for the economy if immigrants weren’t in this country,’’ she said.  Watch: 'Day Without Immigrants' protest  Maria Sanchez, community leader who helped organize "Day Without Immigrants" protests in southeastern Michigan. Photo taken on Feb. 16, 2017, in Detroit. Other businesses that closed include the popular Mexicantown Bakery, car dealerships, and Mangonadas Del Barrio, which serves snacks and desserts.  On its Facebook page, Mangonadas Del Barrio said: "We join the cause a day without immigrants we are Mexicans that day by day we work for a better future. And above all respect our Mexican roots."  The protests were not just about immigrants, but about the identity of Mexican-Americans, including those who are U.S. citizens and have lived in the U.S. their entire lives. They're concerned about the rhetoric against Latinos made by some government officials.   A grandchild of immigrants from Mexico, Martha Contreras, 50, of Pontiac, closed down her Del Pueblo Tortillas and Grocery, a specialty food market, today to attend the rally. She said she knows she’s missing out on business, but she wants to make point.  “We are all united today,” she said.  Contreras’s grandparents emigrated from Mexico in the 1960s. She was born in Chicago and said she’s not afraid for herself because she’s an American citizen. But she said she has friends who are fearful for family members, including an undocumented man she knows who was arrested recently in Pontiac and taken to a federal detention center.  “He was going to get his tools to go to work when they grabbed him,” Contreras said. “My father is 82 and he said he’s never seen it like this.”  Pontiac Mayor Deirdra Waterman addressed the rally and said she plans a meeting with community leaders to discuss the way residents are being treated.  “I think people are just fearful and this has stirred up a lot of emotion and anxiety,” she said. “We are proud of the cultural diversity. I will speak in defense of that.”
50	adjudicated	1	More than 1,500 people turned out in San Luis Obispo, California, on Saturday, June 30, 2018, to protest the U.S. government's immigration, family separation and child detention policy. The SLO County protest was one of hundreds nationwide.  Read more at: https://www.kansas.com/news/local/article214134029.html#storylink=cpy
51	adjudicated	4	"Families Belong Together" was the rally and theme Saturday at De La Guerra Plaza. Followed by a march up State Street. This was the second time in less than two weeks and the numbers were massive. Event organizers estimated 2,000 people.   Here are all of my photos and a video!  ADVERTISING  Hundreds of thousands more rallied in over 700 cities the same day. President Trump had ordered children be taken from families at the border who were legally seeking asylum. This was an unprecedented increase of anti-immigrant action by the Trump Administration and it created outrage among even many Trump supporters. While Trump has been forced to back down from new family separations, most of the same policies are still in place.  It did not help when First Lady Melania Trump wore a jacket reading "I REALLY DON'T CARE DO U?" A number of rally signs responded to this     "Papa Papa Where Are You?" refers to chilling recordings of children who were crying out for their parents   Folk music welcomed people as they gathered   The rally convened with Native American musician Emiliano Campobello performing his Sacred Winds Music    Trinity Episcopal Church priest Art Stevens gave one of the first speeches   His talk and several others were also interpreted into Spanish by a volunteer interpreter   Reverend Stevens spoke of his work accompanying families of Latino youth in Juvenile Court. "Often there were about 20 families, most of whose adults spoke little English and were very scared. I often was the only white person there except for the judge and one pro bono attorney. My presence seemed to offer the parents and youth at least some comfort.  "Now, why were there so many Latino and so few white defendants? Perhaps because sheriffs don't stop white kids going home from school to ask what they are doing, and (however innocent the answer) make a record of the stop that might be used against them later and call their attention to the Sheriff and ICE?"  He went on to tell a harrowing story of a young man with an otherwise clean record who had been picked up for a misdemeanor. He had completed his sentence of community service, but was then turned over to ICE. He was sent to Adelanto Detention Center 3 1/2 hours away. It took extraordinary effort on the part of Reverend Stevens and a kind Muslim banker to get the young man released on "only" $10,000 bond.  Here http://swt.org/act/immigration-2018-0630/stevens/stevens.pdf is the full text of his speech that he has kindly shared.  Event organizer Michal Lynch carefully planned the schedule to keep things moving as sound man Gary Atkins stood by and the next speaker stood ready behind her.   The next speaker was a Nigerian-American woman named Uru who talked about choosing our words wisely. She is the Youth Ambassador for our United Nations Association of Santa Barbara and Tri-Counties.   She explained that words like "them" and "those people" create divisions. We are all one people. Only a small minority of people mean harm. The problem is when others stand by and do nothing. We must speak up when we hear divisive language. She then went on to sing a song.   Christina Pizarro of Democratic Women of Santa Barbara County asked people in the crowd to raise their hand if they or their ancestors had come here fleeing terror and oppression.   Many people, including me, raised our hands. She had a simple message: Don't Cage Our Children   Two men asked to take the stage together and they were given the chance. One was wrapped in the American flag and he said he had been brought to the US at age 4 from Mexico. His message to others in his situation: You are not alone!   The other man was from Peru. He has two children. They "jumped the border." He said each round of immigrants to the US faced discrimination. When the Irish came in large numbers, no one wanted to hire them. But eventually Irish-American John F. Kennedy became president.  He noted that there are few brown people at the rally. He said they are scared. He said that is not right. "You are America. Not that orange man!"  The rally began at 11AM. Then, at around 12:20PM, the rally turned into a march up State Street, complete with police escort.   There were many signs, mostly hand made. "Families Belong Together"   "Think Globally: Reject Intolerance and Bullying" "In Our America Love Wins"   Bullying was a theme on other signs, too   "Families United"   "HUMAN and KIND - Be Both!"   This young woman expressed the hope of immigrant students   A number of signs urged people to vote Democratic and Vote out the GOP in November   "Abolish ICE" (Immigration and Customs Enforcement). ICE was one of the agencies created in the flurry of fear after 9/11. Before that there was one agency - The Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) - which handled all such matters. INS had the word "Service" not "Enforcement" in its name.         Here we see "Abolish ICE" along with "Choose One: __Socialism or __Barbarism"   The original Humanist Manifesto I was published in 1933 during the Great Depression, written largely by Unitarian ministers. They made a similar claim. The brief Manifesto had fifteen points. The fourteenth read:  "The humanists are firmly convinced that existing acquisitive and profit-motivated society has shown itself to be inadequate and that a radical change in methods, controls, and motives must be instituted. A socialized and cooperative economic order must be established to the end that the equitable distribution of the means of life be possible. The goal of humanism is a free and universal society in which people voluntarily and intelligently cooperate for the common good. Humanists demand a shared life in a shared world."  You can read the full Humanist Manifesto I here https://americanhumanist.org/what-is-humanism/manifesto1/  "Immigrants can't be taking our jobs AND living on welfare - Pick your lie!"   This sign simply quotes the poem on the Statue of Liberty welcoming the tired and poor   "Seeking Asylum is Not a Crime" along with the horrors faced in detention   "Seeking Asylum is Not a Crime" along with the first of many referring to Trump's policy that put children in cages and suggested Trump and/or his own children be caged       A number of signs were about "Shame"           A group of women with their children and baby strollers gathered around a sign asking for protection from "Monsters" (Trump and members of his Administration)   Hike leader Diane Soini revived a symbol of 1960s peace with "Fascism is not Healthy for Children and other Living Things"   Someone else had a similar idea   Fascism was a concern of many     This sign suggests the real threat to our country is Racism, Lack of Empathy and Propagation of Hate   Mayor Cathy Murillo brought up the rear   Along with a woman reminding us that we are a nation of immigrants   President Trump's immigration policies are part of his mind set that we are at war with the whole world. That even our closest allies and trading partners are our enemies. This is counterproductive in every way for those who want America to succeed, not to mention the humanitarian cost.  His trade war has sent the stock exchange into a nose dive for months now. Companies like General Motors and Harley Davidson are warning that Trump's tariffs are actually going to force them to move operations abroad, causing job cuts in the US.  Paranoia may be good for winning an election. It is not a way to run a country.  The best way to stop refugees from coming to the US is to undo the damage done by over 150 years of brutal exploitation and interference in the countries of Central America. The refugees are not the enemy. They are the victims.  Most US "aid" in the developing world is really just corporate welfare for US industries to dump surplus goods at taxpayer expense. The US is one of the least generous when it comes to foreign assistance, giving less than one seventh as much per capita as Norway. Investing in true foreign assistance brings material dividends as well as humanitarian rewards. And less refugees.  In any case, by some measures the US is suffering from a shortage of immigrants. Millions of dollars of crops spoiled in the fields in Santa Barbara County alone last year due to a lack of farm labor.  As this sign says so well: "We are All in this Together!"   I will close with one more thought: Trump has created these massive protests by targeting children. But adult immigrant lives matter, too. Many immigrants have lived in the shadows in the US for decades, waiting for some kind of immigration policy to allow them to assimilate legally. Most work hard and pay taxes (without legally being able to file for tax refunds.)  If we think of other crimes, almost all have a statute of limitations. If crossing the border is a crime, why not treat it like any other crime? The government should have a certain number of years to prosecute the crime. After that, a person who otherwise is law abiding is generally allowed to live in peace. Why should immigration be any different?
52	adjudicated	4	Roughly 450 people gathered outside Santa Maria’s ICE (U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement) facility, chanting, “Shut ICE down!” on Saturday. The protest followed a downtown Santa Barbara “Families Belong Together” march that drew a few thousand in protest of President Trump’s zero-tolerance immigration crackdown, and was part of an estimated 700 similar rallies nationwide.   Hundreds turned out on Saturday to continue the Families United protest Paul Wellman “This is the first time we are organizing here [in Santa Maria],” said Hazel Davalos, the Santa Maria–based community organizing director for Central Coast Alliance United for a Sustainable Economy (CAUSE). However, added Elias, who did not want to give his last name, “[Family separation] is nothing new. It’s been happening [here] for years, and finally people are beginning to understand the cruelty and damage that ICE brings to our community.”  Three years ago, 3,000 people protested to keep this facility out, said Davalos. “And now they are planning to grow their staff.” Community members live in fear of deportation, she said. Organizers are concerned about the proximity of the ICE facility to the new jail, set to open in April of next year. “Whether they’ve committed a crime or not, we’ll stand behind them,” she added. “No person deserves to be punished twice — once by our criminal justice system and a second time by deportation.”  While the rally was organized by CAUSE, a number of organizations collaborated and attended the rally, including Planned Parenthood. The group’s Central Coast representative, Miguel Angel Perez, told the crowd that President Trump’s administration want “to divide and conquer” communities. “But, one: We are not the enemy. And two: You will never divide us.”   Hundreds gathered Saturday for the nation-wide Families United protest Erika Carlos Farmworker and mother of five Francisca Pacheco, who has lived in Santa Maria for 15 years, told the crowd, “I am part of this community.” Pacheco said she has two kids enrolled in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program for undocumented students — one is a college graduate and the other is studying medicine. She said it would be tragic if they lost everything they’ve been working toward.
53	adjudicated	2	Children who took off school, parents who took off work, immigrants and children of immigrants took to the streets in St. Paul on Thursday to protest policies by President Donald Trump they say are harming immigrants and refugees.  The march on the so-called “Day Without Immigrants and Refugees” started in the Dayton’s Bluff neighborhood with a few hundred people gathered near the corner of East Seventh and Hope streets near the offices of the Mexican Consulate in St. Paul.  Led by drummers and dancers, the group started marching down East Seventh, past an Asian grocery store, an Ethiopian evangelical church, Carbone’s Pizzeria, Swede Hollow Café and Alimama’s Mediterranean Grill, which specializes in sambusas, a snack typically eaten during Ramadan.   They carried handmade signs saying, “#DumpTrump,” “Brown and proud,” “Immigrants make America great” and “Make America kind again.”  The largely Hispanic group carried American flags, but also flags from Mexico, El Salvador, Ecuador and Guatemala. They chanted in English and Spanish: “Say it loud, say it clear, immigrants are welcome here,” and “Aqui estamos, y no nos vamos,” or “We’re here to stay.” They cheered at the supportive honking from cars that drove by.  RESTAURANTS CLOSED Dozens of restaurants were closed as the campaign encouraged immigrants to refrain from dining out and making purchases. Across the country, immigrants stayed home from school and work to show how critical they are to the U.S. economy and way of life.   Fast-food giant McDonald’s even had to close some of its locations because employees did not show up for work, Business Insider reported Thursday.  In the Twin Cities, St. Paul institutions El Burrito Mercado and Boca Chica Restaurant & Taco House were closed, as were Blue Plate Restaurant Co. sites and St. Paul’s Black Sheep Pizza.  “Since we are a family of community restaurants, we listened to our community. And believe we are strongest when we are united. Because of that, we’ve chosen not to be open tomorrow,” stated a post from Blue Plate Restaurant Co.’s Facebook page for Bottle Rocket in St. Paul.  In addition to Bottle Rocket, Blue Plate restaurants closed Thursday in St. Paul include Groveland Tap and Highland Grill. The company’s restaurants in Minneapolis, Edina and Maple Grove also were closed.  “A Day Without Immigrants” actions also were planned in Philadelphia, Washington, Boston, Houston, Chicago, New York and other cities. The protest gained momentum on social media and by word of mouth.  It comes in response to President Donald Trump, whose administration has pledged to increase the deportation of immigrants living in the country illegally. Trump campaigned on building a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border, and blamed high unemployment on immigration. As president, he’s called for a ban on people from seven Muslim-majority countries from coming into the United States.  Some schools and day-care centers also were closed, with teachers reporting low attendance numbers, on social media.  RELATED: Amid protests, 200 students absent from St. Paul charter school  MARCH TO THE CAPITOL  RELATED ARTICLES Jan. 6 committee votes to hold Dan Scavino, Peter Navarro in contempt Judge: Trump likely committed crimes related to election Justice Clarence Thomas ruled on election cases. Should his wife’s texts have stopped him? Trump returns to Georgia confronting test of his grip on GOP Explainer: Why the 14th Amendment has surfaced in midterms The St. Paul march, with kids in strollers, dogs on leashes and a police escort, grew as it reached downtown by midday, filling the street two or three blocks long and eventually blanketing the steps of the Capitol building. Ann Gilligan, a nurse from St. Paul, came carrying a sign with a picture of her grandmother, Francisca Castillo, who migrated from Mexico at the age of 17 and became a U.S. citizen at the age of 94.  Gilligan said her grandmother worked in migrant fields in Indiana and raised nine successful children, including Gilligan’s father, Manuel Guerrero, a longtime lawyer from St. Paul. The first in his family to graduate from college, Guerrero founded the Minnesota Hispanic Bar Association. He died in 2014 after 50 years as a lawyer helping immigrants.  Gilligan said she was marching for “equality, respect and to not live in fear.”  “My dad would be proud,” she said.  “I thank them for their courage and hard work,” Gilligan said of her family. “Without them, I wouldn’t have my life today.”   Jimmy Patiño brought his daughter, Lunabella, 10, and son, Jimmy, 12, to the march. Patiño, a University of Minnesota professor in Chicano and Latino studies, carried a sign saying, “No human being is illegal.”  “No human being is inherently illegal,” he said. “It’s a dehumanizing use of words.”  Patiño said, “Any attack against immigrants is also code for attacks against the Latino community.”  He said concerns of Latinos also intersect with people from predominantly Muslim countries facing travel restrictions.  “I’m here because I’m an immigrant. I’m here because I believe in justice and equality,” said Norma Atuesta, a nurse from St. Paul. “This president is bringing out the worst in human beings. The worst.”  Sisters Angelica Hernandez, 15, and Melissa Hernandez, 18, of St. Paul, came to the protest with their mother.  Angelica said their immigrant parents aren’t stealing jobs. “We’re here for a better life,” she said.  Melissa Hernandez said this was the second protest she’s attended. The first was the Women’s March in Minnesota the day after the inauguration.  “We’re making a difference. We’re letting our voices be heard,” she said.  Peter Zeftel, 61, of Minneapolis, marched with a sign attached to his walker saying, “Hitler came for my relatives. No one stopped him. Stop Trump’s attacks on immigrants.”  “Trump is attacking the least popular people,” he said. “These people are just working hard to make a living.”
54	adjudicated	3	Demonstrators across Sonoma County rallied in solidarity with hundreds of thousands of others across the state and nation on Saturday, calling for the reunification of immigrant families separated at the southern U.S. border and for politicians in Washington, D.C. to enact reforms that promote compassion toward those fleeing strife-torn countries.  Several thousand people gathered at Old Courthouse Square in downtown Santa Rosa, where chants touted the nation’s embrace of immigrant communities - “We care!” - and endorsed a widening demand by liberal activists and elected officials to abolish the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.  Sign-toting participants called for the end of the Trump administration’s “zero-tolerance” policy requiring criminal prosecution of immigrants caught illegally crossing the Mexican border, including asylum seekers.   “This zero tolerance, or zero humanity policy, needs to end!” Sylvia Lemus, of the Latino leadership group Los Cien, told the throng. “We need to all use our voices and speak to all of our leadership. We’re not going to stop. They will hear us if we join together, so we need to continue this and not stop until we see change.”  The late-morning event, which drew about 3,000 people according to organizers, was one of more than 700 “Families Belong Together” rallies held throughout the nation Saturday, including nearly 100 in California.  In Sonoma County, scores more attended events in Sonoma, Sebastopol and Petaluma, where one participant held up a sign that read, “Human-Kind. Be Both!”   Heather Lundt, of Novato, marched in Petaluma with her infant child held close to her in a chest harness. The hand-drawn cardboard sign she held read, “Babies Need Their Mamas!”  Demonstrations also were held in Mendocino and Lake counties.  The North Coast rallies took place amid searing summer heat that did not seem to sap the emotional pleas of the day. Many speakers urged greater political action, by contacting elected officials and turning out at the polls in November for a mid-term election that could decide control of Congress and any subsequent action on immigration policy.     Maria Aviña, a school counselor at Roseland Elementary in Santa Rosa, shared her own story of crossing the border as a child with her mother and five siblings. She said the experience of running and hiding from immigration officers in the hopes of living a better and safer life left scars that affect her still. It was why she sought to get a good education and help her community, she said.  “Those experiences have forever marked me,” said Aviña, mixing English and Spanish in her speech. “Every single one of us crossing the border experienced trauma. I’m a counselor now because I wanted to make a difference for the many other children that would follow, because I knew that wasn’t going to end. And guess what I get to see every day - trauma. We need to fight for them, now, right now, every day!”  Calls to end family separations from both Democrats and Republicans reached a fever pitch last month, resulting in President Trump issuing an executive order to end the practice on June 20. Many families in custody remain divided, with ICE officials acknowledging a lack of staff has slowed the unification process just as human rights advocacy groups are demanding the return of children to detained parents.  Several attendees at the Santa Rosa rally said the damage had already been done by the time Trump issued his order stopping family separations. Loren Thomas, 41, of Sebastopol, who brought a heart-shaped piece of cardboard reading “Reunite Families,” questioned the president’s motives in the policy pivot.  “I’m glad he did it, but I think it’s just a ploy,” she said. “It might have been a ploy the whole time. I think that it’s a media stunt. I do not think he actually cares.”  A predominant call at rallies across the nation sought the dissolution of ICE altogether - an immigration platform adopted by some of the most liberal Democrats in Congress or running for seats this November. Trump took on that proposal Saturday in a morning tweet that praised for the agency as “one of the smartest, toughest and most spirited law enforcement groups.”  Its abolishment on his watch?  “Zero chance, (sic) It will ever happen!” the president tweeted.  By Saturday afternoon, passing cars at the intersection of Santa Rosa Avenue and Third Street honked horns in concert with a community marching band playing on one corner. The display encouraged row after row of people waving signs with messages such as “Crush ICE,” “Only monsters put kids in cages,” and “Make America Kind Again” - the latter a play on President Trump’s omnipresent campaign slogan.   Shanay Smith-Antenucci, 40, held a sign reading “El Pueblo Unido” - “The People United.” She was on hand with her husband, Todd, 43, and their 7-year-old son Alex. The family moved from New York to Santa Rosa six years ago and, as an interracial family, felt it important to show support for their fellow Sonoma County residents, regardless of citizenship status.  “I think they need our help and they need to know that they’re not alone,” Smith-Antenucci said. “We’re supposed to be going forward and it kind of feels like we’re going backwards. This small ripple hopefully will make a bigger impact, but really it’s just about being here for all people.”  You can reach Staff Writer Kevin Fixler at 707-521-5336 or at kevin.fixler@pressdemocrat.com. On Twitter @kfixler.
55	adjudicated	3	ASHEVILLE, N.C. (WLOS) — Meherwan Irani is the CEO and owner of the Chai Pani restaurant group in Asheville. He's also a James Beard Award nominated chef, and an immigrant. So, he knows the importance of immigrant labor in the industry.  "We can't do this without immigrants," Irani says. "Immigrants are a large part of the restaurant work force and I understand this can sound like it's political but to us it's not. I think if people want to stand up for what they believe in and our employees want to stand up for what they believe in, we want to support them."  So, when the "Day Without Immigrants" labor strike came about, Irani decided to let his employees decide.    "We felt like it made more sense to keep the doors open," Irani said. "Anybody that wanted to take the day off, could in support of the protest. Whoever wanted to come to work could, and that allowed us to then, at least, make a bigger impact by taking the entire profits of all of our restaurants, 100 percent of them for the day, and give them to the ACLU."  RELATED | Local restaurant group responds to Day Without immigrants strike, pledges profits to ACLU  The nationwide labor strike intended to show how impactful immigrant labor is in the United States everyday.  Some restaurants, like Papas and Beer on Tunnel Road, closed completely either in support of their staff, or due to the lack thereof.    A number of confused drivers pulled into Papas' parking lot while News 13 was at the location. Many were supportive of the idea, while others felt like it wasn't the most effective way to get the message across.  For Irani, he hopes today will help bring about an understanding that the immigration conversation is not just about legal and illegal.  "I think it's perfectly OK and legitimate to say we want things done the right way. We want immigrants to come in a legal manner," he said. "But, it's the broad brush with which immigrants are being painted that essentially creates a tone as if every immigrant that comes here is coming here, A. Illegally, or B. For purposes that are not to help our country. We're not here to make a statement. We're just trying to say that if we're going to have a conversation, we want it to be with, taking into account there's also compassion and human dignity, and these are people."    While News 13 did not encounter anyone who was opposed to the strike while doing this story, several people on social media told us they would not be supporting these restaurants in the future.
56	adjudicated	2	On Saturday 150 Santa Ynez Valley residents and visitors participated in the nationwide "Families Belong Together" march. Wendy Mota from Congressman Carbajal's office and Solvang march organizer Elizabeth Osborne addressed the marchers and onlookers. They decried the inhumanity of separating families and detaining children, and emphasized the need for citizen activism to fight this outrageous treatment of human beings.  After marching through Solvang, participants lined both sides of Highway 246, chanting and waving signs, and cheering when passing drivers responded by honking their horns or giving a big thumbs up.
57	adjudicated	3	More than 100 restaurants and dozens of other businesses in cities around the United States shut their doors on Thursday to show support for "A Day Without Immigrants," a walkout aimed at protesting President Donald Trump's policies.  Activists called on immigrants to stay home from work, avoid shopping and eating out and skip classes in an effort to highlight the vital role they play in American society.  The protest was prompted by Trump's vows to crack down on illegal immigration and his executive order, which was put on hold by federal courts, that temporarily banned travel to the United States from seven Muslim-majority countries. Immigrant rights' groups expressed alarm after federal raids last week in which more than 680 people illegally in the country were arrested.  The nature of the action made it difficult to ascertain how many immigrants were participating or to measure the economic impact, though local news media in cities like Minneapolis and Austin, Texas, reported that dozens of businesses were shuttered.  Approximately 700 people showed up at a rally in downtown Raleigh, North Carolina.  "We add to the economy and society," said Kia Allah, 32, a teacher who is Muslim and described herself as half Puerto Rican and half black. "Sometimes people don't listen until it hits their pockets.  Numerous restaurants, which often depend heavily on immigrant staff, closed for the day in Washington, New York, Chicago and other cities. The media site Uproxx kept a running tally of closed restaurants based on social media and local reports that exceeded 135 by midday.  Celebrity chefs such as Jose Andres in Washington and Rick Bayless in Chicago closed restaurants in solidarity with protesters. A number of restaurants that remained open said they would donate part of their profits to pro-immigrant groups.  "People that never missed one day of work are telling you they don't want to work on Thursday," the Spanish-born Andres said on Wednesday. "They want to say, 'Here we are,' by not showing up. The least I could do was to say, 'OK, we stand by you.'"  At the Pentagon, about half a dozen food outlets were forced to close after staff members joined the protest, including a Starbucks, a Taco Bell and a Burger King, according to a Defense Department spokesman.  The protest was the latest in a series of collective actions since Trump took office, from women's groups, immigrant groups and other activists.
58	adjudicated	3	WILMINGTON -- Victoria Velazco immigrated to the United States in 1990 from El Salvador after being granted political asylum. It took her 26 years to become a citizen.  On Thursday, Velazco exercised her right to protest as part of a national Day Without Immigrants protest. Velazco attended the local protest, A Day Without Latinos and Hispanics, in support of immigrants, particularly Hispanics and Latinos, who she feels have been unfairly targeted by the Trump administration’s policies.  Trump’s recent immigration order allows immigration officials to detain individuals who have illegally crossed the border and has resulted in the arrests of hundreds of undocumented Hispanic and Latino immigrants in states across the nation, including North Carolina.  A large crowd gathered on South College Road at Hugh MacRae Park Thursday in support of Latino and Hispanic communities. As part of the protest, more than 80 area businesses closed, including Los Portales Supermarket, El Cerro Grande and Folks Cafe, children were kept home from school and people were asked to not eat out, shop or work to demonstrate the impact Latino and Hispanic communities have on the U.S. economy.  Tammy Pacini, owner of Folks Cafe, closed the doors of her restaurant to stand in solidarity with Latino and Hispanic communities. Pacini immigrated to the United States from Ecuador.  "It's going to make a difference," she said.   The likely effects of the A Day Without Latinos and Hispanics were seen Thursday in New Hanover County schools as at least 287 Hispanic students stayed home.  School district attendance figures show 87.5 percent of absent students were Hispanic at three elementary schools with large numbers of Hispanic students, Bradley Creek Elementary, College Park Elementary and Mary C. Williams Elementary schools. Out of 328 total absences 287 were Hispanic students.  During the protest, which lasted from 4 to 6 p.m. Thursday evening, participants hoisted signs above their heads and began various chants throughout the event. Several car horns honked in support from the road, eliciting cheers.   Kathryn Cloniger-Kirk, a Wilmington resident who attended the protest, stood among the crowd, holding a tall sign that read “Immigration made this nation.”  “We have so many Latino men and women kind of being talked about like they don’t matter and they’re not important, and they’re so very important,” Cloniger-Kirk said. “That’s why I’m here, to show my support and let them know I’m so proud to have them here, so thankful and so grateful. I’m also so sorry that there are people out there that are making them feel like they’re less than anyone else.”  Maria Castillo, a Rocky Point resident who organized the event, said she feels the event “made an impact.”  Castillo said the protest was more than standing up for Latino and Hispanic communities.  “The real message I hope people get is that we’re not only standing up for immigrants, but we’re standing up for love, not hate,” she said. “It’s really time to turn around that hatred we’ve built in this society.”  Despite a disturbance with an aggressive driver and a few foul words and gestures thrown at the group, participants chanted on for the duration of the event.   At 6 p.m., the protest ended and participants left the road together.
59	adjudicated	3	From morning through evening Saturday, local residents gathered at five Families Belong Together rallies across Ventura County as hundreds of similar events took place across the country.  Signs, chants and cheers energized those who turned out to protest immigration policy that has separated an estimated 2,000 children from their parents after they crossed the U.S.-Mexico border without legal permission.  Some at the Ventura County rallies were immigrants or children of immigrants. Some were grandparents, military veterans, students or citizens impassioned to take a stand. Events in Oxnard, Thousand Oaks, Ojai, Ventura and Camarillo brought them out starting at 10 a.m. and kept some going past 6:30 p.m.  Saturday's protests across the nation:  'Where are the children!': Families Belong Together rallies take over USA In 50 states, hundreds of thousands protest immigration policy 12-year-old's powerful moment: 'I'm afraid they will take my mom away' For parents bringing their kids to protest family separations, it's personal President is at N.J. golf resort as thousands protest in D.C.  Hundreds of protesters dressed in white gathered at The Collection in Oxnard starting at 10 a.m. and marched to the Oxnard Boulevard overpass of Highway 101.  “I felt bad for the kids when I saw them on TV,” said Rosa Sanchez, of Oxnard. “It looked like they were in cages with blankets that looked like foil. I don’t think this is what the US is about.”  Jade Smith, of Ojai, said children need their mothers.  “What is happening now is not right,” said Smith, who planned to attend other rallies later in the day. “We are a country of immigrants. We come together. We fight injustice.”   Some motorists passing through the area honked their support. Elected officials including including state Sen. Hannah-Beth Jackson and Assemblywoman Monique Limón, both Democrats from Santa Barbara, addressed the crowd before the march.  At 2 p.m., a larger crowd gathered in Ventura at Telephone Road and Victoria Avenue, near the Ventura County Government Center. Organizers estimated about 750 people were on hand at the rally’s peak.   Attendees were stretched along sidewalks at all four corners of the intersection, with the crowd five deep in some spots. Many drivers honked as they drove past, with ralliers waving and cheering back. Several big rigs blasted air horns, eliciting loud applause and cheers.  Not everyone was in support. Two men in a pickup shouted profanities at one section of the crowd as the pair waited out a red light. Other insults occasionally wafted through open windows as vehicles passed by, although no organized counterprotest was immediately visible at the site.   Vicki Cortez, 31, a first-generation American whose father is an immigrant from Mexico, said she and her sister were strongly influenced by his work ethic and the stress he put on getting an education.  “For me to be separated from him would have been such a disheartening experience,” said Cortez, who lives in Oxnard. She worried that children taken from their families through strict enforcement policies don’t have community support she has seen as a school district employee.  “There is no one to take care of them,” she said.  Some came in strollers. Susan and Jim Prosser, of Ventura, brought their 8-month-old grandson, Magnus, who was napping in the car on the way. Susan Prosser said Magnus’ presence would provide a visual example of the real-world impact of the separation policy.  Across the country, protesters flooded more than 700 marches, from immigrant-friendly cities like New York and Los Angeles to conservative Appalachia and Wyoming, The Associated Press reported. Gatherings were held on the front lawn of a Border Patrol station in McAllen, Texas, near a detention center where migrant children were being held in cages, and on a street corner near President Donald Trump’s golf resort at Bedminster, New Jersey, where the president is spending the weekend.   Trump has backed away from family separations amid bipartisan and international uproar. His “zero tolerance policy” led officials to take more than 2,000 children from their parents as they tried to enter the country illegally\.  In Camarillo, a group gathered at 5 p.m. outside an Immigration and Customs Enforcement office at 770 Paseo Camarillo. A group played music as the crowd gathered around a grassy section of the parking lot, with participants ultimately marching together off site.   Bill Brontsema, of Camarillo, said he showed up because he can’t sleep at night. He’s written to the president and other officials, he said.  “This is appalling to me — it tears at my heart,” Brontsema said. “I don’t know how anybody can sit still and not do anything. It’s wrong.”  Also on hand was 18-year-old Litzy, who did not want to give her last name. Originally from Oaxaca, Mexico, she came to the U.S. when she was a year old. After growing up in Oxnard’s Mixteco community, she now attends U.C. Berkeley, where she is double majoring in political science and Spanish.  She said immigration issues now in focus nationwide are nothing new.  “For many of us in the Tequio Youth Group, we’ve been talking about this for a while,” she said, referring to an organization for indigenous youth supported by the Mixteco/Indigena Community Organizing Project, or MICOP, which helped host the Camarillo event.  While Litzy’s interests include broader international issues, she saw value in the local rally.  “I get to see who’s really involved and who isn’t,” she said.  The Associated Press contributed to this report
60	adjudicated	4	Diego San Luis Ortega has lived in Visalia for as long as he can remember.   He grew up attending local schools, playing on Visalia sports teams and is actively involved in the community.   The 21-year-old is also a DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) recipient. With that has come challenges and an underlying fear of the unknown.  More recently, his undocumented status, immigration and the separation of families have become heated topics of discussion for millions of Americans.   It's a conversation San Luis Ortega and his family have to take extremely seriously.   "With the 'zero tolerance' policy and the crackdown on illegal immigration, my family has come up with a plan just in case we do get separated," he said. "My parents, at one point, did plan on self-deporting. That hurt a lot."   Daphne Valencia holds up a sign at the Visalia Families Belong Together Rally at the intersection of Mooney Boulevard and Walnut Avenue on Saturday, June 30, 2018. An 'unacceptable' policy  San Luis Ortega will not remain silent, he said.   "DACA changed my life in a way I never thought it would change. With DACA came the possibility of me finally being able to do more community service, help out more," San Luis Ortega said. "Now I have the opportunity of advocating with CHIRLA (Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles). Through them, I found my voice. Having DACA rescinded kind of gave me the confidence to be the light for people who are still afraid to come out."   San Luis Ortega chose to be a light alongside 200 other local activists at the Visalia Families Belong Together Rally Saturday morning.   The activists joined thousands across the country to protest President Donald Trump's "zero tolerance" immigration policy.  Organizers say the gatherings provide a forum for people to call out the president's broader push to limit legal and illegal immigration, from his controversial travel ban to his ending deportation protections for hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants.   On Saturday, local protestors met at St. Paul's Episcopal Church before heading to the busy intersection of Mooney Boulevard and Walnut Avenue.  Tulare Councilman Jose Sigala joined activists at the church.   "It's about us having humanity, about us having compassion, about us taking a stand for what's right and fighting against what is wrong," Sigala said. "We've all seen those horrible stories of children being separated from their families, of children crying. Imagine yourself as one of those children, not knowing what's going to happen."  Your stories live here. Fuel your hometown passion and plug into the stories that define it. Create Account Sigala said what is happening with the "zero tolerance" policy is unacceptable.   "They may obviously give these children clothes and food, but what they're taking away is their spirit, their faith in humanity," Sigala said. "We're all here today because we believe in families. We believe that these families should be together."    Once out on the street, activists waved signs, chanted in unity and held up peace signs to cars as they passed.    More than 200 activists participate in the Visalia Families Belong Together Rally on Saturday, June 30, 2018. Locals, who held signs and chanted at the intersection of Mooney Boulevard and Walnut Avenue, joined thousands protesting across the country. Drivers honked their horns and waved as they drove through the intersection.   Local activist Lali Moheno, who helped plan the rally, stood alongside the activists. She said she was pleased that so many people came out to support.  "It's very significant to the people of Tulare County because this county's known to be a conservative county and, like you see right now, it's not. There are two sides," she said. "This city is very strong and supportive of the children. I think it's really significant that the people came out to show that. We're very pleased with that and we hope that we get to show some of that in November — that power. We're ready for it."   San Luis Ortega, who will transfer to Sacremento State University in the fall, said he is proud of the people who stood alongside him at the rally.   "It motivates me to see this," he said. It makes me think 'OK, now I need to get more people involved.'"   His number one goal: to make sure everyone who can vote, votes.   "To people who say this won't affect you, it will affect you in different ways," he said. "And to the people who think voting doesn't change anything, voting does change." 
61	adjudicated	4	Hundreds braved the heat and gathered in West Hollywood today to join a nationwide call to action with a Families Belong Together rally to protest against the immigration crisis caused by the Trump Administration with their disastrous and inhumane family separation policy at the country’s borders.  West Hollywood councilmember Loren Meister lead the call for humane and sane immigration policies at the West Hollywood Park on San Vicente Boulevard. Her line of speakers ranged from activists, entertainers, politicians, WeHo city officials and WeHo residents. Speakers included Chaz Bono, Rob Reiner, West Hollywood Mayor John Duran, Sepi Shyne, Eugene Jarecki, long time WeHo resident Ivy Bottini, Steve Rohde and Michael Aguilera, and District Representative for Congressman Adam Schiff.   “Thousands of children are still in facilities far away from their parents,” said Congressman Schiff, via a written statement read by Aguilera. “Despite statements to the contrary by the president, it is unclear when they’ll be re-united and if the administration truly ended its cruel policy of family separation. Congress must hold this administration accountable and I’ll continue my work with colleagues to find a compassionate immigration policy. Remember West Hollywood, this policy was not an accident. We remember when Mr. Kelly talked about how this would be deterrent, this was on purpose and it meant to be cruel and we cannot stand for that in West Hollywood or across the country.”   Ivy Bottini – Photo by Paulo Murillo Another speaker who made an impact was longtime human rights activist Bottini, who pulled no punches when addressing the crowd.  “I probably won’t be too popular for saying what I’m about to say, but we really are a lazy community,” she yelled from the podium. “We have been too safe for too long and we think it’s how its going to stay. It’s not going to stay. We are on the brink of losing it. And there will people in this community. In this crowd that will not vote in November!”  Then she led the crowd in a chant of “Shame! Shame! Shame!”  “If you haven’t voted and you aren’t registered, please do so,” she stressed. “November is so important. At 92, it feels like this is where I’m supposed to be saying this: Get off your asses and bring back Act Up. Bring it back! Bring it Back… they were fearless. Fearless! I don’t want to hear after the vote in November that we lost. And then I don’t want to hear people say, ‘Oh, I was so tired. I was so tired and it was only one vote…’–yes, it could be the one vote. All you need is one to have a majority. I’m on your tail and I’m watching you.”   West Hollywood Council Member Lauren Meister – Photo by Paulo Murillo Councilmember Meister also had a moment of silence in memory of the five people that were murdered in Thursday’s horrific shooting at the Capital Gazette in Indianapolis Maryland. It was also a show of solidarity and support for the free press.  Signage at the rally did not mince words. They varied from, “Save Children, Dump Trump,” “Who Would Jesus Deport?” “Jail Trump’s Kids” “Kids Aren’t Criminals, Trump Is,” and some signs simply read “Fuck Trump.”  The event ended with the crowd singing This Land is Your Land–a folk song written by American folk singer Woody Guthrie in 1940.  Families Belong Together protests happened nationwide following the executive order that Donald Trump signed this week, which keeps kids imprisoned indefinitely, and doesn’t reunite thousands of separated families. Though it is not a solution to the crisis created by Trump and his administration, it does show that public pressure is working. To continue the pressure for justice, thousands of people across the nation gathered to say that families belong together—and free. Most of the events were organized at act.moveon.org.
62	adjudicated	3	Las Vegas resident Marisela Torres was surprised her car was one of just three in the normally packed parking lot Thursday morning at popular Latino grocery store Mariana’s.   Torres, who is originally from Puebla, Mexico and shops at Mariana’s for tortillas, meats and vegetables, found the store at 4151 South Eastern Ave. closed as part of the national Day Without Immigrants protest.  Immigrants nationwide skipped work and school in an attempt to demonstrate their importance to the U.S. economy, while many businesses closed in solidarity. The protest was aimed at President Donald Trump’s efforts to crack down on immigration, by such means as a wall at the Mexican border.  “We’re part of the community, and we contribute to making Las Vegas what it is,” Torres said in Spanish.  Mariana’s store owner Ruben Anaya said the closing was not politically motivated, but intended to show support for the majority of Hispanic store employees who wanted to participate in the boycott.  “It just picked up a lot of momentum this week, and we decided it’d be the right thing to do,” Anaya said. “They’ve supported us since Day 1, and we’d be nothing without them.”  Mariana’s wasn’t the only Las Vegas store to shut its doors Thursday.  Six La Bonita stores, another popular Latino grocery chain, were closed for the day to “support the cause,” spokeswoman Zaira Contreras said.  The closings frustrated North Las Vegas resident Antonio Arellano, who shook his head as he read a sign advising of La Bonita’s closing on the front door the store at 2672 Las Vegas Blvd. North. He said he stops by the store twice a week to buy groceries.  “I don’t know what’s going on, but this is kind of annoying,” he said.  Next to La Bonita, Rigo’s Taco #8 was serving up tacos, burritos, enchiladas and quesadillas, like any other day. Miguel Ortero, the taco shop’s manager, said while he supported the efforts of Day Without Immigrants protesters, he was working on Thursday to support his wife and two elementary school-age daughters.  “At the end of the day, you have to make money and make sure ends meet,” Ortero said.  Another popular Latino supermarket, Cardenas, said its four Las Vegas stores would remain open throughout the day.  In Chinatown, businesses seemed to be operating normally, with neon “open” signs illuminating the Asian restaurants and stores along Spring Mountain Road, west of the Las Vegas Strip.  Several Chinatown business owners said they hadn’t heard about Day Without Immigrants and didn’t have any plans to close early.  “Nobody told me about that,” said Yi Chenguang of the Fat Dumpling restaurant.  At a couple of Las Vegas area schools, meanwhile, more students than normal missed school, Clark County School District spokeswoman Michelle Booth said. But, for the most part, there was no significant decline in attendance across the district. Rancho High and Hyde Park Middle schools saw “an unusual dip in attendance,” she said.  “I have not heard anything so far that would suggest a large-scale boycott,” Booth said.  Fabiola Perez, who is from El Salvador and now lives in the northeast valley, pulled her daughter out of Mountain View Elementary School to attend a nearby education workshop supporting immigrants’ rights. The afternoon workshop, one of multiple held across the valley by non-profit Hermandad Mexicana, advised concerned immigrants on their legal status and educated them on their next steps to obtaining citizenship, an organization spokesman said.  Standing in line at the front window of the Hermandad Mexicana office on 2900 Stewart Ave., Perez, who is a green card holder, and her 8-year-old daughter Elisa, who was born in Las Vegas and is a U.S. citizen, attended the workshop to “make sure we’re safe.”  “We want to make sure our right to stay here is protected,” she said in Spanish. “Today is the right day to do this.”  Elsewhere around the nation, the heart of Philadelphia’s Italian Market was uncommonly quiet, per media reports, while several eateries and grocery stores in Washington, D.C., New York, Chicago, Los Angeles and Boston were also closed for the day.  Organizers of the protest, which originated Tuesday on social media and quickly spread across the nation, urged immigrants from all walks of life to participate. Mi Familia Vota and The Progressive Leadership Alliance of Nevada were among local advocacy groups to support a Day Without Immigrants.  About 564,000 Nevadans are foreign-born, according to 2015 U.S. Census Bureau estimates, accounting for nearly 20 percent of Nevada’s population. Immigrants accounted for 21.4 percent of the Silver State’s work force in 2015, according to information obtained from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Foreign-born Nevada workers, including those who are U.S. citizens, green card holders and immigrants working without legal authorization, often begin working in the state’s grocery, restaurant, construction, hotel, gaming and retail industries.  Over 65 percent of workers from the 57,000-member Culinary Union Local 226, which employs the majority of workers across those industries on the Las Vegas Strip, are foreign-born or children of foreign-born parents, spokeswoman Bethany Khan said.  “Our state and this country were built on the backs of immigrants,” Khan said. “All the people who make this country great should have a seat at the table.”
63	adjudicated	4	WASHINGTON — Hundreds of thousands of people turned out from coast-to-coast Saturday in "Families Belong Together" rallies to protest the Trump administration's "zero tolerance" immigration policy and implore their fellow citizens to turn out to vote in November's midterm elections.  While the thrust of the near 750 marches and rallies was to defend the 2,000 children separated from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border, the tone was decidedly political.  In Atlanta, Rep. John Lewis, the civil rights icon who once marched with the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., was blunt: "We've got to get out and vote like we never voted before," he said, prompting chants from the crowd," Vote! Vote! Vote!"  He roused the crowd by imploring them: "Don't give up, don't give in — keep marching."     In Dallas, where hundreds turned out downtown to call for a clear plan to reunify families separated by the administration policy, one sign said simply: “November is coming.”  In the nation's capital, thousands poured into Lafayette Square, across from the White House, to chant “We care” and “No Trump, No KKK, No Fascist USA.”  Protesters waved signs in English and Spanish. One sign, sounding like a mother's stern rebuke, read in Spanish, “Trump te calmas o te calmo.” Translation: "Calm down, Trump,  or I will calm you down."  Another sign said, “Melania & Ivanka, stop the child abuse.”  While President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump avoided the chants in Washington, the protests followed them to their weekend retreat in Bedminster, New Jersey.   Only a few miles from Trump National Golf Course, more than 100 protesters lined the side of a major New Jersey highway, waving anti-Trump signs and chanting, “Where are the children!”  Jack Gavin, of West Caldwell, New Jersey, handed out miniature copies of the U.S. Constitution, “Facts Matter” pins and cold drinks. He said he also planned to attend rallies in Newark and Clifton, New Jersey.   In Washington, Shelley Kohl, a retired business owner from Johnson City, Tennessee, said she does not usually engage in politics, but the images of children being separated from their parents motivated her to travel here for the protests.    “Kids don’t belong in cages. Families don’t belong in cages, and kids absolutely don’t belong being removed from their families,” Kohl said.   In New York City, protesters at a Manhattan park chanted "shame!" and "shut detention down" as they geared up to march across the Brooklyn bridge to Cadman Plaza, near the federal courthouse.  Episcopalian Chaplain Jenifer Gamber, 52, said she hoped to send a strong signal to elected officials about the public's opinions on immigration.   "I am appalled at the Trump administration’s treatment of people seeking asylum in the United States that criminalizes asylum-seeking and separates families," Gamber said.   Organizers in the Families Belong Together Coalition included the National Domestic Workers Alliance, the ACLU, Leadership Conference and MoveOn.org.   In  El Paso, several hundred people took part in a rally at the front of the Paso del Norte international bridge downtown. "America will be defined by its borders ... not by Trump and not by walls," Fernando Garcia, executive director of the Border Network for Human Rights, one of the rally organizers, told the crowd from the back of a white pickup truck.  Get the Everyone's Talking newsletter in your inbox. Get caught up with the trending news you need to know  Delivery: Mon - Fri Your Email "We are so tired of the racist, anti-immigrant agenda of this administration," he said. "This administration is putting (immigrant) families in danger.  "Immigrants helped build our nation. Now, they come through the new Ellis Island," he said as he pointed to the international port of entry behind him, drawing cheers from the crowd.   In Boston, the “Rally Against Family Separation” began with a morning march from City Hall to Boston Common, where a large rally took place. The protest was meant to oppose Trump’s ban on travelers from certain Muslim-majority nations.   Sen. Elizabeth Warren and Rep. Joe Kennedy III, both Massachusetts Democrats, were in attendance, with the senator telling the crowd, “This is about children held in cages.”  Warren recently visited a Border Patrol processing center in McAllen, Texas.  Organizers demanded that local government agencies stop cooperating with federal immigration authorities.  Some 700 rallies were mounted in all states, ranging from cities like Austin, Nashville and San Francisco, to Fort Myers, Florida, and the Milwaukee suburbs.  Among the rallies:  — In Louisville, Ky., protesters sought refuge from the sweltering heat around Metro Hall. Art Baltes stood out from the crowd, pacing back and forth under the sunshine with a banner in hand: “Immigrants and Refugees Welcome.”  Baltes, of Louisville, said his Catholic faith spurred him to attend the rally. “That’s exactly where it starts — our faith,” he said. “We just want people to know that people in this town support immigrants and refugees.”  — In Nashville, Abigail Taylor, a 37-year-old mother of three, said she “can’t in good conscious pretend like nothing is happening and have my family go about like nothing is wrong.”   “The idea of someone taking them from me without saying goodbye, and them thinking I abandoned them, breaks my heart," she said.   — In York, Pennsylvania, John Terlazzo sat cross-legged wearing a sign bearing a quote from Buddha that said, "Hatred never ceases by hatred." Asked why he was attending the rally, he said, “Because I’m sane.This whole regime is an atrocity. And I don’t care who you are, you don’t mess with children.”   — In Ithaca, New York,  about 500 people turned out on the Ithaca Commons to protest Trump's "zero tolerance" immigration policies and family separation.   Among the signs was one reading: "Nazi's separated families. We shall not."  — In Denver, where 4,000 people turned out for a boisterous rally, Joan Culwell of Littleton, Colorado, said she had never been to a protest but decided to go after first lady Melania Trump recently wore a coat that read, “I really don’t care, do u?” while traveling to visit migrant children.  Culwell wore a T-shirt saying, “I care!! Do you?”  — In Onancock, Virginia, an Eastern Shore town with a population of under 1,300, some 60 people turned out for a march and a "Rally for the Children" protest organized by a grassroots committee.       Karen Mallard, former Democratic candidate for Congress, told the crowd:  "We're in this mess because citizens haven't been paying attention. So, this is how America becomes great again — we all get involved; we all march, and marching is just the beginning."   The nationwide rallies were in response to a widespread desire among many Americans to take action against Trump's crackdown on immigration, said Lorella Praeli, ACLU director of immigration policy and campaigns.   "This is our country, and if there is something happening that takes us in the wrong direction, we can’t stay silent," Praeli said. "It’s on us to hold our elected officials accountable, to hold our president accountable and to demand action. So silence in this moment is complicity."   After Trump signed an executive order last week ending the family separations, a California judge ordered the Trump administration Tuesday evening to reunite the migrant families it had separated.  There are 2,047 children that must be placed in the same facility as their parents within the next two to four weeks. But U.S. law and a series of court rulings that limit the amount of time minors can be held in detention will further complicate those reunions.  More:Illegal immigration: Separating the facts from fiction  More:As thousands prepare to rally, here's where things stand on immigration  A June 18 CBS News poll showed 67 percent of Americans found separating undocumented immigrant children and parents at the border "unacceptable."   In Columbus, Ohio, at least one person was arrested when protesters blocked a downtown street after about 2,000 people attended a two-hour rally outside the Statehouse.  The Columbus Dispatch reported that police initially tried to shepherd the protesters from the intersection Saturday. A woman was taken away by police after a scuffle.
64	adjudicated	4	Rallies and marches are continuing across the country. Since the inauguration of Donald Trump, people across the country have rallied for women’s issues, health care, gun control, and now protection of immigrants. Despite the intense heat and humidity over most of the country, people turned out in droves. More than 750 demonstrations were held covering each of the 50 states and Puerto Rico.   BARBIE DUBOIS.PHOTO Three Connecticut towns hosted rallies Saturday – in Middletown, where US Rep. Rosa DeLauro spoke; the Two Wrassling Cats, in the small town of East Haddam, which is turning out to be a hotbed of progressive activity; and Deep River Town Hall.  ‘We’re Fighting for the Soul of Our Country’  WITH PERMISSION DeLauro, who traveled to McAllen, Texas, last weekend to visit a detention center, described her experience to an audience of about 250 people. ​“We’re dealing with a policy that if you do something horrific to people they will stop coming to the United States.”  She continued, ​“What I saw was worse than I ever could have imagined… it was inhumane and cruel.” She described the processing center where there were cells, a lock up, concrete benches. ​“It was freezing. There was a sea of tin foil. Yes, there were cages.”  DeLauro’s voice broke when she talked about her 11-year-old Guatemalan grandson, who was not unlike the children in detention. ​“Those are our kids… we can’t forget that.” She said spoke with 15 mothers at St. Isabella detention center. Only one had spoken to her daughter, who was crying on the phone. ​“They have no idea where their kids are,” DeLauro said. ​“These stories must be told nationwide. That’s what this day is about.  “We’re fighting for the soul of our country,” she concluded.  In Middletown  SUSAN CAMPBELL PHOTO Journalist Susan Campbell was also in Middletown and supplied us with her photos. She wrote on Facebook, ​“We watched a movement build from the women’s march after the Trump inauguration. Let’s keep moving.”  Dina Fullerton attended the rally in Middletown as well. ​“It felt great to be in a crowd of like minded people. In this political climate and era of divisiveness, that was very welcome,” she said. ​“I think my generation of women was the first to grow up with abortion as a right, and we were the first women to actually believe we could be/do anything we wanted. We benefitted from the political protests of the past in terms of civil rights (my peers and friends) and women’s rights. So this feels like the first wave of activism since then that my generation can get behind.”   DINA FULLERTON Fullerton added that a friend said she has a 20-year-old daughter and a gay son. ​“She is now worried for their future in ways she never really considered before.”  In East Haddam  JOAN MEANS PHOTO Two Wrasslin’ Cats in East Haddam hosted 75 to 100 people, including Joan Means, Gini King and other members of CT Shoreline Invisible.  “It was well attended with lots of energy to stand up for immigrants and their children,” Means said.  And again, there were the signs.  200 Rally in Deep River  WITH PERMISSION Barbie Dubois and Sunny Bosco were among those at the Deep River Town Hall, Main Street.   BARBIE DUBOIS PHOTO Bosco was the organizer along with Valley Shore Stands Up. ​“People are outraged by the crimes being perpetrated by the president against immigrant families,” said Bosco. ​“This isn’t an issue of politics, it’s one of morality. There’s no middle ground when the administration’s policy choice is causing children to suffer, and moral Americans won’t stand by and let this happen.”   BARBIE DUBOIS.PHOTO Bosco told the crowd, ​“We are here to tell the white house and the world that we are fed up with Trump’s treatment of immigrant and refugee families, and condemn all acts of racism and nationalism being committed in our names. Families seeking safety in our country need protection, not prosecution. It’s a situation that calls, not for an absence of tolerance, but for an abundance of it, and for community, kindness, and brotherhood.”   BARBIE DUBOIS.PHOTO “Two hundred people are here fighting for democracy and compassion. It won’t be an easy course correction, but this is a start. Vote in November!” wrote Dubois on Facebook. ​“129 days until November 6.”
65	adjudicated	2	Note: This story has been updated with additional information on Ben's Kosher Delicatessen on Long Island.  Over 100 people across the country were fired from their jobs after skipping work to take part in the "Day Without Immigrants" protest last week, according to NBC News.  Immigrants and supporters in a number of major cities across the country skipped work and school and demonstrated on Thursday. The protest was meant to highlight the contributions of immigrants to the nation's businesses.  Companies responded to the protest in a variety of ways. Some closed in support or allowed staff votes on whether to open.  Others donated a portion of the day's sales to nonprofits that work with immigrant communities.  Some restaurants, day cares and other businesses in states including Florida, Tennessee and Oklahoma fired workers who didn't show up in order to protest, NBC said.  Nearly 20 people were fired at Bradley Coatings in Nolensville, Tennessee, according to NBC. All employees were told in advance they risked losing their jobs if they skipped work, NBC said.  NBC, citing a Telemundo story, initially stated that Ben's Kosher Delicatessen Restaurant on Long Island fired 25 people in the wake of the protest.  The company later disputed that, according to NBC.  "In anticipation of 'A Day Without Immigrants,' Ben's Kosher Delicatessen Restaurant & Caterers, posted a formal statement to its Greenvale employees on Wednesday, Feb. 15, expressing support for their human rights and requesting that they fill their shift as scheduled on Thursday, Feb. 16," Ben's said in a statement, according to NBC.  Some employees protested while others chose to work, the statement said. Protest leaders pressured the others to walk out and even threatened physical harm to employees choosing to work, Ben's said.  The firm fired employees who made the threats, but said all other workers involved in the walkout are welcome to return.  Jim Serowski, founder of JVS Masonry in Colorado, warned his employees of the consequences if they participated in Thursday's demonstration, according to CNN. Serowski fired about 30 of his employees who skipped work.  "If you're going to stand up for what you believe in, you have to be willing to pay the price," he said, according to CNN. "I stand by what I believe in. I didn't do anything wrong."   Serowski said his decision had nothing to do with politics and everything to do with business, according to CNN. He said his employees were hurting the company.  He also said he has supported immigrant labor for years. The protest felt like a slap in the face, he said, according to CNN.  Serowski told CNN he has paid his employees even when he didn't have work for them.  "I've gone above and beyond for these people," he said, according to the network. "No one is going to dictate how my company is run."
66	adjudicated	4	COLUMBUS (WSYX/WTTE) — Thousands of protesters hit the streets across the country to rally in support of immigrants. Several hundred people brought the "Day Without Immigrants" movement to Columbus Thursday afternoon.  Many of the protesters held signs and chanted about how they felt President Donald Trump mischaracterized them by calling Mexicans drug dealers and rapists.  "We are not criminals," said Norma Lopez, one of the protesters. "They're out to portray us as bad people, people who are here to take things. We're not that. We are families that came from other countries in search of a better life."  The group said prayers both in English and Spanish. They held up American flags and also the flags of many Latin American countries.  Some of the people there were legal immigrants with US citizenship. Others were undocumented.  "People say, 'go back to Mexico'," said Jesus Antonio, an undocumented immigrant who came from Mexico when he was 14. "You know what? I don't want to go back there. That's what I came here for because this place is better."  Many businesses closed for the day in solidarity.  "When people come to the United States from Central American and South American countries, it's not because they were comfortable over there and they're better here," said Virginia Nunes Gutierrez who kept Bottoms Up Coffee open but donated part of its profits to immigration organizations. "We're lacking in basic human needs."  Some people taking part in the "Day Without Immigrants" said they aren't criminals. They said they came to the US to get away from crime and poverty.  "You do have a voice," said Andrew Martinez who organized the event. "It doesn't matter what your immigrant status is. It doesn't matter what nationality you are. It doesn't matter what your sexual orientation is, you have a voice. You should speak up. It's time to come out of the shadows."  Some business owners who closed their doors Thursday said there was some backlash for taking part in the protest but they said they wanted to show immigrants aren't just consumers, they're employers as well.  Martinez said some undocumented immigrants didn't want to take part in the rally because they were afraid immigration officials would be there.  He said similar events like this one may be planned in the coming months.
67	adjudicated	1	An Oklahoma restaurant stirred up a heated debate when the owner fired a dozen employees who participated in the Day Without Immigrants protest. Explore >> Read more trending news The nationwide protest was organized Thursday in response to President Donald Trump’s goal of increasing the deportation of illegal immigrants. The strike was held to show how important immigrants are to businesses.  Some say the employees of the I Don’t Care Bar and Grill in Catoosa were treated too harshly, but others believed consequences were necessary for missing work. “If you have 12 people who feel strongly and want to make a stand, I think management should have taken a look at that and at least stood by them or give them some time,” Broken Arrow resident Catherine Bishop said. The restaurant’s managers would only confirm that 12 people were fired for not showing up to work and not calling beforehand. Sign up for newsletters from the Dayton Daily News You choose the topics and we’ll keep you connected to in-depth local news. GET STARTED The restaurant posted to its Facebook page that it was now hiring. Some in the comments say they don’t plan to return, but others support management’s decision.
68	adjudicated	4	OKLAHOMA CITY – As part of a national demonstration, some businesses across the city were closed Thursday as part of a one-day campaign known as ‘A Day Without Immigrants.’  The closed doors were especially evident in the Latino community on the city’s south side.  Sitting in his darkened bakery, Ramiro Vasquez closed his business in an effort to open the door on what he calls a big problem.  “This is like a cancer that is kind of sleeping. But, it’s there and, right now, it’s just waking up,” he said.  He’s talking about the fear people in his community are living in.  He said some of them are afraid of being deported.  “If it happens – it’s already happening,” he said.  He’s been in the U.S. for 30 years and in business or the past 15.  He’s more worried about his customers than himself.  That’s why he sold nothing Thursday.  “I think, if we get together, our voice is going to be louder,” he said.  A car dealership down the street was also closed.  “We’ve got the right to live,” said manager Ricardo Serrato. “We’ve got the right to express ourselves. We’ve got the right to be recognized.”  Adrian Diaz stopped us in a parking lot.  He’s a nurse and took the day off.  He said he’s afraid of losing his family.  “My life is going to change if my wife has to go back to Mexico, my parents, my brothers, everyone,” he said.  The men we spoke with said they hope a solution can be found that creates a better path towards citizenship for productive immigrants.  “In Mexico, we also thought about the Americans to be nice, humanitarian, and I don’t know what’s happening right now,” Vasquez said.  “We want to show that we’re not criminals. We’re not bad people,” Diaz said.
69	adjudicated	2	The Day Without Immigrants protest shut down businesses nationwide last week, but it didn’t come without some consequences for a handful of workers who decided to take part in the demonstrations.  Dozens of workers said they lost their jobs after taking part in Thursday’s protest. The boycott was aimed squarely at President Trump's efforts to step up deportations, build a wall at the Mexican border and close the nation's doors to many travelers. It was unclear how many participated.  Twelve Latino employees from the I Don’t Care Bar and Grill in Tulsa, Okla. told Fox 23 News they were fired over text message because they didn’t show up for their shift and failed to let their employers know about their absence. The employees told the station they expected to be reprimanded, but not dismissed.   The firings led to an outcry in the community.  “If you have 12 people who feel strongly and want to make a stand, I think management should have taken a look at that and at least stood by them or give them some time,” Catherine Bishop, of Broken Arrow, told Fox 23 News.  The restaurant had already posted on Facebook seeking employees for its open positions.  Meanwhile, Carmen Guerrero, an immigration activist told the Philadelphia Inquirer that six people were fired from their jobs at a Bahama Breeze in King of Prussia for taking part in the protest. Guerrero said when the workers heard of the protest, they decided to join in and when they showed up Friday for work they allegedly were told they couldn’t enter the building.  Bahama Breeze spokesman Rich Jeffers told the paper that “no one was ever fired.” Guerrero said the workers told her that they were all rehired “to make it look like nothing happened.”  According to News Channel 5, 18 workers from Bradley Coatings Inc. were let go. The workers told the station they told their employer they would be joining in the nationwide protest on Wednesday and when they returned to work Thursday they were informed they had been fired.  "We are the team leaders directly under the supervisors and they informed us last night that we could not go back to work and the boss said we were fired," one employee told the station.   An attorney for Bradley Coatings said in a statement that the employees were told they would “need to show up for work (on Thursday) or they would be terminated” because of the “time-sensitive” job they were assigned to. The statement contended that the firings had nothing to do with politics.  Encore Boat Builders LLC, based out of Lexington, S.C., had 21 workers who didn’t show up for work Thursday. WLTX-TV reported they were told not to participate in the demonstrations or face termination and when they failed to show up, the company followed through on its threat.  Six staff members at a Bonita Springs, Fla. daycare quit, Rev. Jeremy Walker, who runs the day care, told NBC 2. However, two workers said they were fired for wanting to join the protest, while four others claim they resigned after the others two were fired.  Several students also participated in Thursday’s protest. There were no immediate estimates of how many students stayed home in many cities. Many student absences may not be excused, and some people who skipped work will lose a day's pay or perhaps even their jobs. But organizers and participants argued the cause was worth it.  Marcela Ardaya-Vargas, who is from Bolivia and now lives in Falls Church, Virginia, pulled her son out of school to take him to a march in Washington.  "When he asked why he wasn't going to school, I told him because today he was going to learn about immigration," she said, adding: "Our job as citizens is to unite with our brothers and sisters."  Carmen Solis, a Mexico-born U.S. citizen, took the day off from work as a project manager and brought her two children to a rally in Chicago.   "I feel like our community is going to be racially profiled and harassed," she said of Trump's immigration policies. "It's very upsetting. People like to take out their anger on the immigrants, but employers are making profits off of them. "  The Associated Press contributed to this report.
70	adjudicated	3	Immigrants around the U.S. stayed home from work and school Thursday to demonstrate how important they are to America’s economy, and many businesses closed in solidarity in a nationwide protest called A Day Without Immigrants.  The boycott was aimed squarely at President Donald Trump’s efforts to step up deportations, build a wall at the Mexican border and close the nation’s doors to many travelers.  In Umatilla and Morrow County, where the U.S. census estimates 9,900 foreign-born residents out of a population of 87,000, the demonstration was perhaps felt most powerfully at schools.   Sixty-five percent of Umatilla School District students are Latino, and superintendent Heidi Sipe said 39 percent of the district’s students were absent Thursday. One classroom at McNary Heights Elementary only had six students.  “Honestly, we’ve also had a number of students expressing concern about (Immigrations and Customs Enforcement) coming to school,” Sipe said. “They always ask, ‘Are they going to take us?’”  Sipe said they tell students that school is a place to focus on learning and that there are laws that help it stay that way. The district is not even legally allowed to ask students about their immigration status.  Sipe said she also had more staff missing than usual but does not know their reasons for being absent.  At the Hermiston School District — which is 50 percent Hispanic —1,438 students were absent on Thursday — a quarter of the district’s population. Of those students, 1,183 were Hispanic, according to district communications officer Maria Duron.  In Boardman schools, where more than three-quarters of all students are Hispanic, 409 of the 1,082 students were absent — about 38 percent of total enrollment.  Attendance rates were slightly higher at Irrigon schools, though still well below average. About 28 percent — 242 of 853 enrolled students — were absent.  Dirk Dirksen, superintendent of the Morrow County School District which includes Boardman and Irrigon, said average attendance usually hovers around 94 percent.  Though Dirksen said he did not hear specifically from students or parents whether the protests played a role, the connection was difficult to ignore.   “There’s a lot of talk right now, as there is nationally, as to the immigrant status,” Dirksen said. “It’s part of people’s lives right now. It’s what they’re dealing with.”  In the Milton-Freewater school district that is 56 percent Latino, superintendent Rob Clark said he saw a noticeable drop in attendance. Clark said elementary school students started telling teachers Wednesday that they wouldn’t go to school the next day, and Thursday bore that out across all grade levels.  Out of a total enrollment of about 1,750, Clark estimated 400-450 students were absent Thursday, up from the 50-75 absentees the school district experiences on an average day.  Clark said he expects the students who missed time to make up their work, but he did not condemn the movement.  “I haven’t walked in their shoes,” he said. “I’m not here to judge.”  Businesses closed  In Hermiston, several businesses that employ immigrants were closed for the day, including Fiesta Foods. The grocery store had a sign noting the store was closed “in support of the community” and would resume normal operations Friday.  On Main Street, the Mexican bakery Panderia Yasmine was locked during normal business hours, as was Tienda de Princessa across the street. Mercado San Juan on Hartley Avenue was dark with no explanation, and on Hermiston Avenue Trina’s Mexican Food had a sign saying the restaurant would not be open all day.  At the United Farm Workers offices, Pacific Northwest Regional director Victoria Ruddy said that she knew some farm workers who were immigrants had chosen to work on Thursday despite the protest, but she hoped that just having fewer immigrants working across the country would help people realize how important immigrants are to farms and food production.   “Every meal you put on your table, an immigrant probably helped put it there,” she said. “We all rely on those workers to feed our families. We really do.”  At Boardman Foods, 30 employees didn’t show up to work on Thursday. Several local food processors did not respond to requests for comment, but on social media some employees said that many of their coworkers did not show up as well.  Some citizens were upset by the ban and the inconvenience it caused.  Forest Hunt, a Power City resident, said he was picked up by a shuttle service to buy groceries in town, and was surprised to find Fiesta Foods closed.  “They didn’t put it in the paper, and that’s the only way I’d know about it,” he said. “It’s puzzling if they don’t care about the inconvenience to customers.”  Hunt said he had been part of unions before, and understood the need to get people’s attention, but was upset the store didn’t alert shoppers ahead of time.  “I just thought it was a low blow not to let customers know,” he said.  Some businesses around Hermiston stayed open. La Carreta on Southwest 11th Avenue was operating as usual. Owner Armando Rodriguez said he hadn’t been aware of the movement beforehand, so he didn’t plan to close his business for the day.  “I will do it in the future if I know,” he said. “There’s lots of things going on with the new president. We don’t know what will happen.”  Gregoria Castillo, who works at the clothing store Novedades Castillo on Southwest 11th Avenue, said their business stayed open to assist others. The business also converts money and sells airplane tickets.   “We’ve had many people coming in today,” she said. “They need tickets to send to people in other places.”  Around lunchtime on Thursday, Castillo said she had seen about seven people come in to purchase tickets, which was more than usual.  Jonathan Shaklee, a Kennewick-based immigration lawyer, said he has noticed something of a cognitive dissonance for many people surrounding Trump’s immigration policies.  “I talked to an employer 30 minutes ago,” he said. “He has multiple undocumented employees, and he’s very concerned about them. There are a number of employers who think their employees are ‘the good guys,’ and want to keep them here. And at the same time, (the owners) are Trump supporters.”  He said he’s seen people get detained for all kinds of minor crimes, such as a traffic infraction that occurred many years prior. He said those are not the people Trump says he wants to get deport.  “Those ‘felons’ oftentimes have felonies for illegal re-entry, like if they went home to visit a parent and get caught coming back,” he said. “There’s a big difference between the gang members, drug traffickers and abusers, and the ‘felons’ who have one offense, like a DUI from when they were 20.”  He added that a lot of employers who feel protective of their own employees don’t seem to see the connection.  “They’re not unique, and their workers aren’t unique,” he said. “Most of the 12 million people are like that.”  Around the country  Organizers of the national movement said they expected thousands to participate or otherwise show support.  It was unclear how many people participated, but in many cities, the actions were disruptive, if not halting. More actions are being planned for May 1 — known as May Day, the internationally recognized holiday honoring workers.   “I fear every day whether I am going to make it back home. I don’t know if my mom will make it home,” said Hessel Duarte, a 17-year-old native of Honduras who lives in Austin, Texas, with his family and skipped class at his high school to take part in one of several rallies held around the country. Duarte said he arrived in the U.S. at age 5 to escape gang violence.  The protest even reached into the U.S. Capitol, where a Senate coffee shop was among the eateries that were closed as employees did not show up at work.  Organizers appealed to immigrants from all walks of life to take part, but the effects were felt most strongly in the restaurant industry, which has long been a first step up the economic ladder for newcomers to America with its many jobs for cooks, dishwashers and servers. Restaurant owners with immigrant roots of their own were among those acting in solidarity with workers.  Expensive restaurants and fast-food joints alike closed, some perhaps because they had no choice, others because of what they said was sympathy for their immigrant employees. Sushi bars, Brazilian steakhouses, Mexican eateries and Thai and Italian restaurants all turned away lunchtime customers.  “The really important dynamic to note is this is not antagonistic, employee-against-employer,” said Janet Murguia, president of the Hispanic rights group National Council of La Raza. “This is employers and workers standing together, not in conflict.”  She added: “Businesses cannot function without immigrant workers today.”  At a White House news conference held as the lunch-hour protests unfolded, Trump boasted of his border security measures and immigration arrests of hundreds of people in the past week, saying, “We are saving lives every single day.”   Since the end of 2007, the number of foreign-born workers employed in the U.S. has climbed by nearly 3.1 million to 25.9 million; they account for 56 percent of the increase in U.S. employment over that period, according to the Labor Department.  Roughly 12 million people are employed in the restaurant industry, and immigrants make up the majority — up to 70 percent in places like New York and Chicago, according to the Restaurant Opportunities Centers United, which works to improve working conditions. An estimated 1.3 million in the industry are immigrants in the U.S. illegally, the group said.
71	adjudicated	3	The march was both for and against.  A total of 240 people took to Hood River streets Thursday as part of the “Day Without Immigrants” events held across the U.S. in response to federal policies on immigrants.  “I am here for the movement — and change,” said Obaldo Solis, a Hood River farm laborer. He held a sign reading “Vine por trabajo” — “I came for work.”  They marched for immigration reform and support of immigrants, and against discrimination and exclusion, with about 150 starting at Marco Sports on Tucker Road, one of a number of businesses closed for the day.  The march continued in the rain downtown to Overlook Memorial Park. People joined the walk after parking at other locations on the Heights. Among the marchers was Mayor Paul Blackburn, who said, “I’m here because they need allies.”  A total of 735 students were not in attendance at Hood River County School District buildings on Thursday. Absenteeism at the nine school sites was approximately 400 percent greater than typical, according to Superintendent Dan Goldman.  On the Heights and toward downtown, a long line of drivers patiently waited as the marchers filled one lane of 13th, holding signs and calling out to passing motorists, many of whom honked in support.  Bilingual chants included “Si se puede — yes we can” and “Somos uno — we are one.”  “We want immigration reform. We all deserve to have that,” organizer Jose Bibian told the crowd at Overlook.  They chanted, “We all make America great,” but no chant or sign overtly mentioned President Trump, ICE enforcement actions, or the plan to build a wall on the Mexican border, though these factors were present in peoples’ minds.  Carrying a sign reading, “My parents cross give me a better future,” Jackie Hernandez, 17, of The Dalles, said,“My parents are both Mexican and my grandparents crossed the border for them and now I’m here and I couldn’t be happier, or else I couldn’t go to school. I’m just so grateful. I have a lot of family members who are undocumented and now that ICE is coming for them, we are terrified, and this is why I’m here, because I’m a citizen and I’m the voice for them.”  Carlos Quezada of Hood River said, “I do feel we have a very large group of Hispanics here, and we need to be together to support the immigration reform we need. We are definitely a big drive in the economy here. We need more people and it seems like we are the main work force, in all sorts of aspects, be it out in the fields or in the restaurants, just in general, jobs other people don’t want to do.”  Organizers reported two instances of aggressive behavior toward marchers, including a pickup truck driver from Washington who edged into the middle of the march, driving slightly faster than people were walking and forcing them aside, ignoring requests to stop or leave the route.  March organizers had not taken out a parade permit, which Police Chief Neal Holste said technically was needed since the march did impede traffic. He spoke with Bibian at Overlook and Bibian repeated Holste’s instruction to remain on the sidewalks, to which marchers complied. Holste said no citations were issued, and he looked upon it as an educational opportunity for his officers and citizens.  In keeping with similar demonstrations across the U.S., multiple Hood River businesses closed for the day, including Marketa Guadalajara, Lake Taco, Novedades el Potrillo, Puerto de Los Angeles, Chicken Teriyaki, Hood River Taqueria, El Botanero, and Marco Sports.  Goldman issued a statement Thursday saying, “As a part of the greatest country on the planet, we support the democratic process and the rights of people to express themselves freely, to be represented, and to be safe in one’s beliefs; our country will simply cease to function as a free and democratic society without the protection of these rights. Thank you for creating the conditions for tolerance and understanding in our community.”
72	adjudicated	3	More than 30 students walked out of Tillamook High School after lunch Thursday, equipped with homemade signs – and sombreros.  It was marked across the nation as “A Day Without Immigrants” – a day for people whose families immigrated to the United States or are immigrants themselves to not go to work, school or spend money.  “We decided to march because of all the unfair deportations that are going on,” THS senior Daisy Mendez said. “We want to make sure people are aware of what’s going on and how it’s unfair to people who aren’t criminals.”  Mendez added she has heard reports of people who have attempted to renew their citizenship are now being faced with deportation.  “My parents are citizens but when they need to renew their citizenship, I shouldn’t be scared they could get deported,” she said, “I shouldn’t be scared of what could happen to my family when we didn’t do anything wrong.“  Mendez, along with fellow THS senior Zayra Contreras organized, what Contreras described as a “peaceful protest.”  On Thursday, Contreras alerted Assistant Principal Jill Ingram of the students’ intention to protest.  “She told us she understood what we were doing,” Contreras said, “But she made it clear we would be marked as ‘truant.’”  A truancy would cost the students a lunch detention or Wednesday night school.  “We all thought about it,” Contreras said, “We were standing in the main foyer and looked at each other and said ‘Well, we’re all serving lunch detention together.’”  Mendez added, “The impact we make is going to last longer than, like, a lunch detention.”  Contreras said by protesting after lunch, students would miss two classes – as opposed to a whole day, like many places around the country did.  “We respect the school system,” she said, “I didn’t want to miss too much school.”  Contreras and Mendez said the protest began outside on the THS campus and then marched within the halls one time, before being told they were disrupting classes.  So they walked to downtown Tillamook to march on the courthouse – with permission, of course.  “I’m taking AP Government,” Contreras said, “That class taught us people need certain permits for protests.”  Contreras found herself at the Tillamook County courthouse the day before the protest, with a friend, telling them of their planned march.  “We let the authorities know and they thanked us,” she said, “The last thing I wanted to have happen is for someone to get in trouble or cause problems for the community.”  After marching around the courthouse, the students ended up on the corner of First Street and Main Avenue, along Highway 101.  “We got lots of positive attention,” Mendez said, “More than we could have hoped for. There were lots of honking and smiling.”  Contreras said the group stood at the spot for an hour-and-a-half.  “We had only about five people flip us off or yell, ‘Go, Trump,’” she said.  Keeping with the peaceful protest mentality, Contreras and Mendez encouraged the protesters to simply smile back and wave.  “Or we would throw up a heart,” Contreras said, “We did not want to reflect their negativity.”  The duo said the protest had given sense of pride to their elders.  “Many teachers supported us and told us they were proud of us,” Contreras said.  A woman met the student protesters along Highway 101 and started to cry while talking with them about their cause, according to Contreras and Mendez.  “She said she was proud of us and what we were doing,” Contreras said, “She said we were doing a great thing and she was proud of us for being brave.”  “I was so surprised,” Mendez said, “Because it’s not just important to us, it’s important to people of different races.”  One of the reasons Mendez was encouraged to march was to shift perceptions.  “There’s various people who do bad things,” Mendez said. “They’re the ones who get most of the attention. It’s really frustrating.  Everyone gets stereotyped.”  Mendez added the amount of Latino students who get into trouble are outweighed by the ones who are doing well in school and getting involved.  “I was Charity Drive queen last year, I’m in Speech and Debate and I’m on ASB (all-school student council),” she said, “I want to be a teacher – maybe – I want to encourage people to shape the future.”  Contreras said they are waiting to see what the response will be from the school – and their peers, to see if the march was a success.  “And what trouble we’ll be in.”  But she said they are already loosely planning to join a larger protest set for March 1.  “I know lots of people in Tillamook who voted for Trump,” Mendez said, “But we aren’t protesting that he’s president – we’re protesting against his policies.”  Contreras echoed the sentiment.  “Lots of us are up-to-date and informed,” Mendez said. “We want to make a difference. We are paying attention and are playing a part – even if we’re not old enough to do certain things.”
73	adjudicated	2	GREENWICH — About 400 people rallied in front of Greenwich Town Hall to protest the family separations happening at the border in just one of about 700 “Families Belong Together” rallies held nationwide on Saturday decrying the policy.  The peaceful program, organized by Indivisible Greenwich, featured what founding member Joanna Swomley called a mosaic of speakers: U.S. Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn; the executive director of Stamford’s Building One Community; a psychotherapist; a Methodist pastor; a representative from the Greenwich Reform Synagogue; and a representative of the Democratic Town Committee.   The anchor event took place in Washington, D.C., with more than 100 organizations, including the ACLU, Amnesty International, Indivisible and MoveOn coming together to draw attention to the Trump administration’s zero tolerance policy that calls for the prosecution of all individuals who illegally enter the U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order last week ending the policy of separating children from their parents when they crossed the U.S. border. His solution is now to detain families together, with attempts now beginning to reunite the already separated families.  All the stories, all the time Unlock Greenwich Time for 99¢ SUBSCRIBE “Each of us has an immigrant story,” Blumenthal told the crowd, clad in the white linen typical of Greenwich summers but worn Saturday as a symbol of unity and peace. “Each of us came from somewhere.” His father immigrated to the U.S. from Germany alone at age 17 in 1935, speaking no English, Blumenthal said. Blumenthal concluded by urging listeners to fight to uphold the United States of America.  U.S. Rep. Jim Himes, D-4, and U.S. Sen. Chris Murphy were not in attendance, but issued statements that were read to the crowd.     Maria Hamre, pastor of First United Methodist Church of Round Hill, delivered a discourse on the divinity of the family and the scriptural commandments to care for immigrants.  Hamre mentioned another Methodist, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who quoted a verse in Romans to provide divine sanction for his separation policy in a speech to law enforcement officials in Fort Wayne, Ind., on June 14.
74	adjudicated	4	New London — Spontaneous chants of “We care!” erupted at one point Saturday morning at Williams Park, in the heart of the city.  It was a common theme expressed by speakers at a rally that attracted hundreds of people demanding immigrant families be reunited with their children and an end to the Trump administration's zero-tolerance policy of prosecuting anyone who illegally crosses the U.S.-Mexico border.  Church of the City Pastor Daniel Marino said the administration's policies and President Donald Trump's focus on immigration has resulted in a “cultural and political climate rooted in fear, mistrust and hostility towards others.”  Marino said his congregation represents more than 200 working immigrant families in New London, a city known for embracing diversity.  “We believe and hope that our Christian values of welcoming the stranger and loving the neighbor will prevail,” he said. “Now too many Americans — way too many — call people illegals, dangerous, criminals. But God calls us by our real name. Their true name is precious in God’s sight.”  Marino joined a host of faith leaders and politicians in an event that coincided with hundreds of Families Belong Together protests happening across the country.  Many in New London came wearing white clothing and bearing signs with messages like “Free the Children,” or “No excuse for child abuse.”  New Londoners Karen and Nick Fischer organized the event in part as an emotional reaction to seeing families being torn apart and detained.  “It’s horrible, just horrible,” Karen Fischer said. “It’s so damaging to the kids and to the families who have already been through hell. Most of the families coming here are fleeing violence and trying to save their children’s lives. They come to our border seeking asylum and they’re being arrested.”  The couple has long been involved with children, and not just as parents. Nick Fischer is a longtime educator and former superintendent of schools in New London. Karen Fischer has spent years working as a counselor for military families.  “This is not a complex political issue. It goes to the core value of who we are as a people,” Nick Fischer said.  President Trump, facing mounting public pressure, signed an executive order a week ago that ended the practice of splitting up parents from their children as they were taken into custody for entering the country from Mexico. RELATED GALLERIES         'Families Belong Together' protest in New London  But more than 2,000 families have yet to be reunited with their kids, “despite the promises of the president,” and the families are now being held together, said U.S. Congressman Joe Courtney, who spoke at Saturday’s event.  Courtney traveled with other legislators to an Immigration and Customs Enforcement processing facility in Brownsville, Texas, last week, where he said he met with 10 immigrant mothers, nine of whom had “no idea where their children were.”  “After we asked some questions, they were extremely nervous and extremely polite. They burst into tears uncontrollably — and so did we,” Courtney said.  Courtney drew applause from the crowd when he said, “We as a nation need to continue the drum beat of noise and advocacy.”  Saturday’s list of speakers was as diverse as the audience and included Democratic lieutenant governor candidate Susan Bysiewicz; state Reps. Joe de la Cruz and Chris Soto; Mongi Dhaouadi, the regional director of United Muslim Voices; and Pastor Steve Jungkeit from the First Congregational Church of Old Lyme, where a Pakistani couple targeted for deportation has been living in sanctuary for three months.  Speeches were translated in Spanish by an energetic Efrain Dominguez, a member of the New London City Council.  Helen Coleman of Norwich said she came to Saturday’s event to be part of a group she thinks can make a difference.  “I think as a country, suddenly, we realize how important it is that we have to be out there lending our voice,” she said.  Coleman’s friend Cathy Smith-Carolan of New London said of the family separation issue, “this is just one more atrocity. It’s not the thing that brought me out. It’s the culmination of the political climate.”  “There’s a new outrage every day. It’s wearing us down,” said Alicia Primer of Groton, who joined with others at the event.
75	adjudicated	3	PHILADELPHIA (AP) — The heart of Philadelphia's Italian Market was uncommonly quiet. Fine restaurants in the nation's capital and New York closed for the day. Grocery stores, food trucks and taco joints in places like Chicago and Boston shut down.  Immigrants around the U.S. stayed home from work and school Thursday to demonstrate how important they are to America's economy and its way of life, and many businesses closed in solidarity, in a nationwide protest called A Day Without Immigrants.  The boycott was aimed squarely at President Donald Trump's efforts to crack down on immigration, legal and illegal. Organizers said they expected thousands to participate or otherwise show their support.  The protest even reached into the U.S. Capitol, where a Senate coffee shop was among the eateries that were closed as employees did not show up at work.  Marcela Ardaya-Vargas, who is from Bolivia and now lives in Falls Church, Virginia, pulled her son out of school to take him to a Day Without Immigrants march in Washington.  "When he asked why he wasn't going to school, I told him because today he was going to learn about immigration," she said, adding: "Our job as citizens is to unite with our brothers and sisters."  Organizers appealed to immigrants from all walks of life to take part, but the effects were felt most strongly in the restaurant industry, which has long been a first step up the economic ladder for newcomers to America with its many jobs for cooks, dishwashers and servers. Expensive restaurants and fast-food joints alike closed across the U.S.  On Ninth Street in South Philadelphia's Italian Market, it was so quiet in the morning that Rani Vasudeva thought it might be Monday, when many of the businesses on the normally bustling stretch are closed.   Produce stands and other stalls along "Calle Nueve" — as 9th Street is more commonly known for its abundance of Mexican-owned businesses — stood empty, leaving customers to look elsewhere for fresh meat, bread, fruits and vegetables.  "It's actually very sad," said Vasudeva, a 38-year-old professor at Temple University. "You realize the impact the immigrant community has. We need each other for our daily lives."  Since the end of 2007, the number of foreign-born workers employed in the U.S. has climbed by nearly 3.1 million to 25.9 million; they account for 56 percent of the increase in U.S. employment over that period, according to the Labor Department.  The foreign-born — who include American citizens, green-card holders and those working without legal authorization — tend to be younger and to take jobs in fields that have been growing fastest, including restaurants, hotels and stores.  Roughly 12 million people are employed in the restaurant industry, and immigrants make up the majority — up to 70 percent in places like New York and Chicago, according to the Restaurant Opportunities Centers United, which works to improve working conditions.  An estimated 1.3 million in the industry are immigrants living in the U.S. illegally, the group said.  In New Mexico, the state with the largest percentage of Hispanics, school officials said hundreds of students might stay home.  Many people who skipped work will lose a day's pay or worse, and many student absences will not be excused. But organizers argued that the cause is worth the sacrifice.  "A lot of people lost their jobs because they took a day off, but they are ready to risk that," said Olivia Vazquez, a 22-year-old community organizer with Juntos and a Mexican immigrant living in the U.S. illegally.  "They are tired of their communities being criminalized," Vazquez said. "Every human being deserves a life with dignity and respect, and we're not getting that. They're ready to fight back."  In New Orleans' Mid-City neighborhood, whose Latino population swelled after the damage wrought by Hurricane Katrina in 2005 created lots of jobs for construction workers, the Ideal Market was closed.  The place is usually busy at midday with people lining up at the steam tables for hot lunches or picking from an array of fresh Central American vegetables and fruits.  In a Mexican-heavy neighborhood of Chicago, some businesses noted the shutdown and their support with handwritten signs.  Pete's Fresh Market closed five of its 12 grocery stores and assured employees they would not be penalized for skipping the day, according to owner Vanessa Dremonas, whose Greek-immigrant father started the company.  "It's in his DNA to help immigrants," she said. "We've supported immigrants from the beginning."  Trump is pushing to build a wall along the Mexican border and step up deportations of immigrants living in the country illegally. He has also blamed high employment on immigration.  Associated Press writers Sophia Tareen in Chicago; Alex Brandon in Washington; Kevin McGill in New Orleans; and Russell Contreras in Albuquerque contributed to this report.
76	adjudicated	2	Restaurants across Houston and Texas closed Thursday in solidarity with a nationwide rally in support of immigrants and hundreds of protesters marched in Austin against President Donald Trump's recent policies.  The protests come just days after highly-publicized immigration raids across the country, including Austin and San Antonio, that lead to the arrest of 680 people who Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said in a statement were public safety threats.  It was the largest such sweep in about two years and fueled tension and fear among immigrants already rattled after Trump's series of executive actions, including his controversial travel and refugee ban that is now tied up in litigation.  "There is most definitely anxiety, yes," said Cesar Espinosa, executive director of the advocacy group FIEL Houston. "We have been inundated with calls."  In Houston, restaurants including Torchy's Tacos in The Heights and Tacos A Go Go posted on social media that they were closed to allow their staff to participate in the rally, named A Day Without Immigrants.  Enrique Bravo, the owner of the Pollo Bravo chain, said he allowed employees at his five restaurants to skip work. His restaurant on Richmond Avenue closed and the others adjusted their operations to stay open with fewer staff.  Bravo, an immigrant from Mexico who has lived here for two decades, said his decision was based "on my respect to my workers."  In Austin, the Kipp charter school network posted a photo on Twitter of a nearly empty school, calling it a "powerful statement."  "We've seen heavy absences from our students, across the board," said Hector Leiva, a spokesman. "We knew that lots of parents and families were interested in supporting this. We support them."  Throughout the morning, protesters marched from Austin City Hall toward the state Capitol, rallying against the increase of immigration raids across the city. Police officers shut down half of Congress Avenue while three women danced to Spanish music in front of the marchers. Children waved Mexican flags.  "ICE out of Austin," protesters yelled.  Some held signs reading "Immigrants make America great" and "Stop the deportations. Stop the separations."  Rudy Chapa, a senior at Connally High School in Austin, encouraged his classmates to come to Thursday's march. He brought together roughly 20 students who took the city bus to show their support.  In Houston, a rally is organized for 6 p.m. at Guadalupe Plaza near Navigation Boulevard in the East End.
77	adjudicated	1	Protesters turned out in Fairfield County and throughout the nation on Saturday to demand that the Trump administration reunite the divided families created by its “zero tolerance” immigration policy.  Hundreds attended a "Families Belong Together" rally in Stamford.  Many of the protesters carried signs, among them" "Families Belong Together," "Separation Anxiety," "Nobody Puts Babies In A Cage," and "We Care."  Organizers said there were more than 700 protests in all 50 states.  The main protest nationally occurred at Lafayette Square opposite the White House.     Some protesters called for the elimination of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency.  President Trump tweeted his support of ICE during the rallies, writing on Twitter,  "To the great and brave men and women of ICE, do not worry or lose your spirit. You are doing a fantastic job of keeping us safe by eradicating the worst criminal elements.  "So brave! The radical left Dems want you out. Next it will be all police. Zero chance, It will never happen!"  Click here to sign up for Daily Voice's free daily emails and news alerts.
78	adjudicated	3	President Donald Trump’s hard-line immigration policies have created a climate of “fear” in the Hispanic community, said Greenville businessman Ricardo Parra.  On Thursday, Parra joined restaurateurs and shop owners across the country who shut down their businesses for a day in a coordinated protest.  “The government is acting against the immigrant community,” said Parra, who has owned La Esperanza Bakery since 2010.  “We feel like we don’t belong to this country,” added Parra, who employs 14 workers. “We want to show that we are part of the community.”  More than 60 businesses in Greenville’s growing Hispanic community participated in the nationwide strike/boycott known as “A Day Without Immigrants,” according to activists.  In addition, one-third of the Hispanic children in Greenville County elementary schools didn’t show up for classes on Thursday, according to district spokeswoman Beth Brotherton. Figures were unavailable for middle and high schools on Thursday.  Michael Parrish, a music teacher at Alexander Elementary School near White Horse Road, said a large number of Hispanic students had chosen not to attend school on Thursday.  “I missed my students and I can’t imagine my school without these students,” Parrish said. “These Hispanic students bring a lot of diversity and culture to our school.”  “A Day Without Immigrants” encouraged Hispanics and other immigrants and supporters not to work, open their businesses, buy things, go out to eat, buy gas or go to school.  The movement, organized largely through social media, is designed to show what America would be like without immigrants. It was also intended to protest Trump’s immigration agenda, which includes a pledge to build a wall on the U.S. border with Mexico.  In addition, activists said they’re alarmed by raids across the nation last week that according to USA Today resulted in about 680 arrests, .  “It’s definitely generated fear,” Parra said.  U.S. Rep. Jeff Duncan, however, said the real problem is illegal immigration.  “What we really need to see in our country is a day (or a year) without illegal immigration,” Duncan said in a statement by email. “That would help shore up our health care and educational systems and relieve the burdens that hardworking American taxpayers are paying every day. It would also help make our country safer again from the threat of radical terrorists who can now enter through our southern border as they please.”  On the campaign trail last year, Trump said illegal immigration costs the country $113 billion a year, a claim which the Pulitizer prize-winning fact-checking organization PolitiFact rated as "Mostly False."  Duncan, a Republican congressmen, said last week’s raids were directed toward people with “extensive criminal backgrounds.”  “That’s why I support the actions of the president in restarting the building of the border fence and cracking down on illegal immigrants, particularly those with extensive criminal backgrounds which were the focus of last week’s successful ICE raids — raids that also occurred during the Obama Administration,” Duncan said.  A ‘lonely’ street  Many of the Hispanic businesses that closed Thursday are located along White Horse Road.  “The street looks kind of lonely,” Parra said as he surveyed the closed shops.  Outside Compare Foods on Blue Ridge Drive, a Pepsi worker, arriving to make a delivery, was trying to figure out why the grocery store had shut down for the day.  A sign in Spanish in the window announced that the store was closed “in support of the Latino community.”  Across the street, the closed-for-the-day Supermercado El Rey displayed a similar sign in the window.  The expansive parking lot of the normally bustling La Unica Supercenter on White Horse Road was barren on Thursday.  Dozens of other businesses in the community were closed during posted business hours.  PASOs, an agency that helps to connect Hispanics with health care and education services, was open and operating Thursday, but state executive director Julie Smithwick said, “We absolutely support anyone who chose to participate” in “A Day Without Immigrants.”  She echoed Parra in saying that Trump’s immigration policies had created deep anxiety in the immigrant community.  “There is highly increased feeling of fear and uncertainty,” Smithwick said. “It is all over the state and it’s affecting families that we work with on a daily basis. We’ve been hearing from a lot of families who are even afraid to go to a doctor appointment. People are staying home more than ever and they’re fearful.”  Anti-immigration rhetoric in last year’s presidential election has contributed to violence against immigrants, Smithwick said.  “Some people feel emboldened to engage in discrimination and bullying,” Smithwick said. “We’ve seen reports of bullying increasing at school. It feels like we’re trying to hold back a dam with a finger because the fear is rampant.”  There were more than 235,000 Hispanics living in South Carolina in 2010, according to the U.S. Census, an increase of 148 percent over the previous decade.  Some of the area's biggest employer saw no effect from the protest.  Representatives of hospital systems in Greenville and Spartanburg said “A Day Without Immigrants” had not increased absences among employees beyond usual daily levels.  Rogelio Montez, owner of the El Arriero restaurant on North Main Street in Anderson, said he considered closing Thursday, but decided against it because so few of his customers would have any idea why the business was closed on a non-holiday.  “Most of our customers don’t know anything about it,” he said of the closings. “We didn’t want customers to come and find the door closed, and not know why.”  Greenville County Councilman Joe Dill said protesters misunderstand Trump’s goals.  “I think what we’ve got here is a huge miscommunication among people,” Dill said. “Who are they (protesters) defending? I appreciate a government that will try to protect me from anyone who is here to harm me.”  U.S. Rep. Trey Gowdy said people have the right to strike but praised those who choose not to protest.  “People have the right and freedom to express their thoughts and perspectives in a variety of ways,” Gowdy said in a statement by email. “I am grateful to the women and men who have defended and continue to defend these rights and freedoms. It is one of the many reasons so many people seek to come to the United States in the first place. I am glad, however, that the law enforcement officers who thought President Obama was wrong on law and order and constitutional issues did not decide to take a day off to protest.”  Adela Mendoza, executive director of the Hispanic Alliance of South Carolina, said her agency supported “A Day Without Immigrants” by working with “DREAMers” — Hispanic students who arrived in the U.S. at a young age and who have lived here for many years.
79	adjudicated	4	Joni Newby's voice cracked as she held a megaphone Saturday in front of Wilmington's Carvel State Office Building, explaining how her young daughters inspired her to organize her first march.  With hundreds listening and daughters Natalie, 10, and Guinevere, 5, standing by her feet, Newby was almost overwhelmed by the moment, drawn to action in opposition to President Donald Trump's "zero tolerance" immigration policy.   "I do it with the hope of a better world for them, which means when there's oppression, hatred and intolerance, you stand up and fight!" shouted Newby, a social worker from Bear, as U.S. Sen. Tom Carper, D-Del., stood at her side on the steps of the state building.  Newby's march, which started at Cool Spring Park and cut through the city to the Carvel building, was one of three protests in Delaware and more than 750 held across the country Saturday in reaction to migrant children being separated from their families.  In addition to Wilmington's march, which also included a speech by U.S. Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester, D-Del., Milltown's St. Barnabas Episcopal Church and Dover's Legislative Mall each had events, drawing several hundred people to those rallies as well.  Joni Newby of Bear helps lead the rally as protesters gather at the Carvel State Office Building in Wilmington to rally against the Trump administration's "zero tolerance" immigration policy Saturday. The series of Delaware events drew sign-toting protesters, many of whom said they felt helpless as they watched images of detention centers on television and read about the separations.  Dover's protest was led by McKenzie Melvin, 18, a Dover-based college student. Milltown's gathering was organized by Maria Perez, 68. Along with Newby, 38, all three were leading their first protests.    Melvin said, "When a lot of people stand up and protest, lawmakers are more likely to make change. That's why it's important to leave your homes and participate because that's what it's going to take to get the people running the country to hear us."  Hundreds of protesters stand on the steps of the Carvel State Office Building in Wilmington to rally against the Trump administration's "zero tolerance" immigration policy Saturday. Linda Gordon, 68, weathered temperatures in the low 90s in Milltown to make her voice heard, surrounded by others with signs that read "Put Trump in a Cage" and "Shame, Shame."  "It's just terrifying to see this happening here in our country," said Gordon, whose only other protest was her trip to Washington, D.C., earlier this year for March for Our Lives. "I like coming out for the camaraderie. I don't know how to explain it other than to say by being here, I feel like I'm not alone."   St. Barnabas became a protest site after parishioner Maria Perez approached the Rev. Martha Kirkpatrick, church rector.  Kirkpatrick agreed it was an important time to stand and be heard, deciding to serve lemonade and apples to the gathered crowd of several hundred protesters clustered in the shade under a tree.  Kirkpatrick felt that the issue spoke to her as a Christian, spurring her to proclaim that her religion's message is a message of love for all people. She said she wanted to amplify her own voice as others, including some fellow Christians, disagree about the country's border policy.  U.S. Senator Tom Carper addresses the crowd gathered at the Carvel State Office Building in Wilmington to rally against the Trump administration's "zero tolerance" immigration policy Saturday. "We are called to bear witness to injustice. We are called to proclaim love. And we just have to keep speaking," she said during a break outside her church. "In some ways, people are standing up and representing Jesus in a way that I don't recognize. It compels me to stand up and speak for the Jesus of the gospels. There's just no room for hate in that Jesus. And I thought it was important for the church to stand up and say that."   Kirkpatrick and Perez said they were appalled by the government's actions, like so many others who came out in protest across the country.  "We're standing with so many others who are standing up and saying, 'This isn't my America,'" Kirkpatrick added. "We're focusing on love. We don't need more hate speech."  Delaware protesters joined tens of thousands coast-to-coast at the "Families Belong Together" rallies protesting an immigration policy that left more than 2,000 children separated from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border.   In the nation's capital, thousands poured into Lafayette Square, across from the White House, to chant “We care” and “No Trump, No KKK, No Fascist USA.”  Shane Sanders of Wilmington (left) and Anna Ogunnaike of Hockessin listen to speakers as protesters gather at St. Barnabas' Episcopal Church in Milltown to rally against the Trump administration's "zero tolerance" immigration policy Saturday. Protesters waved signs in English and Spanish. The slogan on one English sign demanded, “Where are the children?” One sign, sounding like a mother's stern rebuke, read in Spanish, “Trump te calmas o te calmo.” Translation: "Calm down, Trump, or I will calm you down."  While Trump and first lady Melania Trump avoided the chants in Washington, the protests followed them to their weekend retreat in Bedminster, New Jersey. Only a few miles from Trump National Golf Course, more than 100 protesters lined the side of a major New Jersey highway waving anti-Trump signs and chanting, “Where are the children!”  Many of those messages were mirrored in Delaware.  By the time Perez spoke at the church, some already had tears in their eyes as they reflected on both on the plight of migrants and their treatment at the hands of the U.S. government.  Protesters gather at St. Barnabas' Episcopal Church in Milltown to rally against the Trump administration's "zero tolerance" immigration policy Saturday. "Children need their parents and not detention camps. They need the love that only their parents can provide," she said. "The cries of the children must be heeded. The suffering and abuse of these children must stop."  For Newby, her first time as a march organizer sparked something within. After her speech, friends and family joined fellow protesters, politicians and political candidates in thanking her as she stood with her daughters.   While the event was more work than she initially thought when she decided to organize, the march was worth it.  "It was so inspiring. I almost burst into tears this morning when I saw 181 people were registered and knew it was going to be even bigger," Newby said. "I think I've been bitten by the bug."
80	adjudicated	3	Three different generations of Delaware women — none of whom have ever led a protest before — are the organizers behind a trio of immigration protests across the state Saturday.  After President Trump's "zero tolerance" immigration policy and child separations, the women all had the same reaction: "I have to do something."  Wilmington's Maria Perez, 69, Bear's Joni Newby, 38, and Dover's McKenzie Melvin, 18 — none of whom know one other — each created an event on MoveOn.org as part of more than 600 protests scheduled across the country this weekend.  Wilmington physician Maria Perez has organized an immigration protest at St. Barnabas' Episcopal Church in Milltown on Saturday. While their backgrounds may be different — Perez is a doctor, Newby is a social worker  and Melvin is a college student — their message is unified: Stop separating families and treat migrants and refugees with respect.  "A child being separated from their parents is just unthinkable. And for a parent not to know where their child is — it doesn't make any sense to me," says Perez, a longtime member of Milltown's St. Barnabas Episcopal Church, the site of her protest. "I just felt that I needed to do this."   The event organized by Perez will be held at St. Barnabas' Episcopal Church, 2800 Duncan Rd., and starts at 10 a.m.  Newby's march from Wilmington's Cool Springs Park to the Carvel State Office Building in Wilmington also kicks off at 10 a.m.  And Melvin's protest starts at 10 a.m. on the Legislative Mall in Dover. (The Moveon.org  event page says the protest is at noon, but it is at 10. Organizers say the time could not be changed on the page.)  Speakers are expected at each event, including possible appearances by U.S. Sen. Tom Carper and U.S. Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester, according to organizers.  Bear's Joni Newby is the organizer behind Wilmington's immigration protest on Saturday. While harsh political rhetoric and the divisiveness it spawns seem to be at the forefront these days, protest organizers say they are focused on compassion for those affected by the policy, not political fights.  Newby, who worked as a child welfare caseworker before joining the staff of a local hospice center, stresses that her protest isn't about political parties, even though she is a self-described liberal Democrat.   "Quite frankly, I'm tired of the zealots on both sides and the games that they are playing," she said. "Our government is so busy being focused on labels that they have forgotten that we are all Americans, but more importantly, we are all human. This was a human rights violation.  "We have a choice. Are we going to stand by and be apathetic or are we going to start talking and be the America we want to be?"  Newby will also use her event as a learning tool for her two daughters, Natalie, 10, and Guinevere, 5. Both will be in attendance, along with Newby's husband Brian.  Dover's McKenzie Melvin is the organizer of Saturday's immigration protest on the Legislative Mall in Dover. "One day, they are going to have to fight and stand up for what they believe in," Newby said, noting that her older daughter is already being affected by the country's divisions. "Natalie goes to a school that is very diverse and she doesn't understand hatred based on the color of skin. It makes her very emotional."   Perez said she was aware of Newby's Wilmington march, but decided to host her own event for those who can't march due to physical limitations or are skittish about going into the city.  "I felt it was important to have an alternative for them," said Perez, who lives in Mill Creek. "Even if you can't walk, I want you to be able to have a voice about something you feel strongly about."  Protesters who marched from Freedom Plaza to the U.S. Capitol demonstrate inside the Hart Senate Office Building against family detentions and to demand the end of criminalizing efforts of asylum seekers and immigrants on Thursday in Washington, DC. In Dover, Melvin decided to use some of her summer break away from Virginia's Bridgewater College to organize her protest. In fact, several others had the same idea, including Kimberly Coleman.  In the end, the Dover protests merged for Saturday's 10 a.m. event, which is now co-sponsored by several groups, including the ACLU of Delaware, the Delaware Civil Rights Coalition, Equality Delaware, Pacem in Terris and more.   "This really flipped my compassion switch. You can see the firsthand impact of this policy," Melvin said of the child separations.  For Perez, Saturday's events are about standing up and being counted at a time when she and many others feel powerless.  "We're a democracy. The voices of some people aren't being heard, so other people need to stand up for what they believe and for what is right," said Perez.  People protest outside as First Lady Melania Trump takes part in a round-table discussion at Health and Human Services Southwest Key Campbell children's shelter in Phoenix, Arizona on Thursday. Contact Ryan Cormier of The News Journal at rcormier@delawareonline.com or (302) 324-2863. Follow him on Facebook (@ryancormier), Twitter (@ryancormier) and Instagram (@ryancormier).  Delaware protests Wilmington — Starting at 10 a.m. Saturday, protesters will march from Cool Springs Park to the Carvel State Office Building (820 N. French St.).  Dover — On  Saturday at 10 a.m., a protest will be held on the Legislative Mall.  Milltown — At 10 a.m., Milltown's St. Barnabas Episcopal Church (2800 Duncan Rd.) will be the site of an outdoor protest.
81	adjudicated	2	Beaufort County, S.C.-(WSAV)- Several Lowcountry businesses are not fully staffed Thursday due to employees taking part in what’s been dubbed “A Day Without Immigrants.”  The day is meant to show communities what it is like without immigrants in the workforce as part of a protest against recent ICE raids.  Wednesday night, Little Steps daycare in Bluffton posted a message to its Facebook page, tagging dozens of its clients. In the message they stated all of their employees were legal immigrants and would be taking part in the protest. The daycare was closed Thursday and no sign was posted at the business as to why.  A Mexican supermarket off Simmonsville Road had a sign posted to its door stating it would close for the day.  The $5 Carwash on Bluffton Parkway had only two workers Thursday, far less than usual. A man who identified himself as the owner said his employees gave him a heads up Wednesday why they wouldn’t show up. He said he supported their choice and, “I want them here just as much as they want to be here.”  News 3 inquired with The Greenery landscaping company about their employees but someone who answered the phone said a manager would call back to discuss it.  Steve Carb, owner of SERG restaurants in Bluffton and Hilton Head did not have numbers to report late morning but said most employees were reporting to work.  The Beaufort County School District spokesman said he will report attendance numbers at 3pm. We checked with the Jasper County School District and have not heard back.  A “peaceful protest” is expected to take place along Simmonsville Road at 11am. News 3 will follow this story as it develops.
82	adjudicated	4	The anguish was obvious as Francisco Serrano spoke haltingly about losing his brother through deportation and watching his parents fret over their future as they applied for permanent residency after the loss of their temporary protected status as Salvadorian nationals living in the U.S.  “The whole process was hard on us,” said Serrano, a Bowling Green native. “I felt hopeless, I felt there was nothing I could do. It’s hard seeing my three nieces grow up without their father and it’s hard not having my whole family together.”  Serrano helped organize a rally Saturday morning outside U.S. Sen. Rand Paul’s State Street office to protest the separation of more than 2,000 children from their parents in recent weeks at the border, one of the effects of the Trump Administration’s zero-tolerance immigration policy requiring the arrest of anyone crossing the border illegally.  The reunification of separated families has been slow to occur despite the president recently signing an executive order stopping further separation of families and a federal court ruling last week that requires the government to reunify families separated at the border.  Bowling Green joined hundreds of other U.S. cities Saturday in holding demonstrations united under the slogan “Families Belong Together.”  “Welcoming the stranger, showing hospitality to foreigners and extravagant generosity are non-negotiables in the Bible,” said Rev. Megan Huston of First Christian Church.  More than 200 people were estimated to have attended the downtown rally, which occurred in stifling heat approaching 90 degrees late Saturday morning.  Several demonstrators held hand-made signs bearing messages that included “love has no borders,” “reunite families now” and “save democracy, stop fascism.”  “Just because you have a piece of paper that says you have status, that doesn’t make you more of a human than someone who does not,” Serrano said.  Speakers gave passionate addresses about advocating for the rights of immigrants.     “I cannot imagine the pain that mothers and children are going through by being separated,” said Julia Rivas, a Bowling Green resident whose family emigrated to the U.S. from El Salvador when she was a child.   advertisement Salvadorians are the largest group to have temporary protected status, due to families fleeing a civil war that wracked the nation for more than 12 years.  The U.S. government announced plans to discontinue temporary protected status for Salvadorian nationals this year.     Rivas said that more recent asylum-seekers are fleeing poverty and crime in El Salvador.     “Some of these families are facing violence and protecting their children from being taken into gangs, they have no option but to try to protect their children and themselves,” Rivas said. “It’s been extremely hard for me to see everything that’s going on, it hurts me so much as a mother. However, we see young leaders trying to make a change and that gives me hope.”  Patti Minter, Jeanie Smith and Dana Beasley Brown, all candidates for state or local office, exhorted those in attendance to organize and advocate for changes to federal immigration policy.  Sabina Husic spoke of her family’s experience in Bosnia during the Srebrenica massacre of more than 8,000 Muslims in 1995 during the Bosnian War.  Husic never saw her grandfather alive again after Srebrenica and was almost separated permanently from her mother.  “Separation is a traumatic experience,” Husic said. “Even if they were to be reunited, the pain never goes away, the fear of losing your family never goes away.”     Addi Hernandez of Bowling Green said after the rally that she was “pleasantly surprised and overwhelmed by the support” shown by the community.  Hernandez, whose family brought her to the U.S. from Mexico when she was 2, spoke during the rally about the desperation felt by many immigrants seeking asylum here.  “It really gives you strength and courage to stand up for what’s right when you see all the support from the community,” Hernandez said after the rally.
83	adjudicated	2	Note: This story has been updated with additional information on Ben's Kosher Delicatessen on Long Island.  Over 100 people across the country were fired from their jobs after skipping work to take part in the "Day Without Immigrants" protest last week, according to NBC News.  Immigrants and supporters in a number of major cities across the country skipped work and school and demonstrated on Thursday. The protest was meant to highlight the contributions of immigrants to the nation's businesses.  Companies responded to the protest in a variety of ways. Some closed in support or allowed staff votes on whether to open.  Others donated a portion of the day's sales to nonprofits that work with immigrant communities.  Some restaurants, day cares and other businesses in states including Florida, Tennessee and Oklahoma fired workers who didn't show up in order to protest, NBC said.  Nearly 20 people were fired at Bradley Coatings in Nolensville, Tennessee, according to NBC. All employees were told in advance they risked losing their jobs if they skipped work, NBC said.  NBC, citing a Telemundo story, initially stated that Ben's Kosher Delicatessen Restaurant on Long Island fired 25 people in the wake of the protest.  The company later disputed that, according to NBC.  "In anticipation of 'A Day Without Immigrants,' Ben's Kosher Delicatessen Restaurant & Caterers, posted a formal statement to its Greenvale employees on Wednesday, Feb. 15, expressing support for their human rights and requesting that they fill their shift as scheduled on Thursday, Feb. 16," Ben's said in a statement, according to NBC.  Some employees protested while others chose to work, the statement said. Protest leaders pressured the others to walk out and even threatened physical harm to employees choosing to work, Ben's said.  The firm fired employees who made the threats, but said all other workers involved in the walkout are welcome to return.  Jim Serowski, founder of JVS Masonry in Colorado, warned his employees of the consequences if they participated in Thursday's demonstration, according to CNN. Serowski fired about 30 of his employees who skipped work.  "If you're going to stand up for what you believe in, you have to be willing to pay the price," he said, according to CNN. "I stand by what I believe in. I didn't do anything wrong."   Serowski said his decision had nothing to do with politics and everything to do with business, according to CNN. He said his employees were hurting the company.  He also said he has supported immigrant labor for years. The protest felt like a slap in the face, he said, according to CNN.  Serowski told CNN he has paid his employees even when he didn't have work for them.  "I've gone above and beyond for these people," he said, according to the network. "No one is going to dictate how my company is run."
84	adjudicated	4	HOLLYWOOD — Even as the heat index hit 100 Saturday, more than a thousand South Floridians took to the streets in Boca Raton, Hollywood, Miami and West Palm Beach to keep the heat on presidential policy that has separated some 2,000 migrant children from their parents.  They were part of the same movement that galvanized 700 nationwide demonstrations, organized by a collection of grass-roots groups including the Move On and Families Belong Together, organizations to bring about change in immigration policy. The sight of traumatized children united them.   ADVERTISING  “Our country was founded out of a concern for decency,” said Laura Samuels, who drove from Delray Beach to attend the protest in Hollywood, where several hundred marched outside the Diplomat Beach Resort, where state Democrats were holding their annual June conference. “There is no basic, fundamental decency to separating families of immigrants.”  After rallying with some words from notables such as U.S. Rep. Lois Frankel, D-West Palm Beach, and West Palm Beach Mayor Jeri Muoio, about 550 people marched from the intersection of Southern Boulevard and South Flagler Drive in West Palm Beach, to the gates of Mar-a-Lago, estimated Jim Haug, 51, a Palm Beach Gardens editor, who was among the protesters.  About 250 protesters were counted in downtown Boca Raton. And social media feeds showed hundreds of protesters gathering at Freedom Tower in Miami. Police shut down traffic on Biscayne Boulevard to accommodate the march.  [Popular on SunSentinel.com] Now open: Akira Back and Rossano’s Pizza in Delray Beach, Cork & Barrel Wine Bar and Tapas in Tamarac » Hollywood Police had to hold back the growing crowd that spilled off the sidewalk onto South Ocean Drive across from the Diplomat. Sporadic rain did not dampen the demonstrators’ resolve.  PAID POSTWhat Is This? Berkeley,California Launches New Policy For Cars Used Less Than 49 Miles/Day Berkeley,California Launches New Policy For Cars Used Less Than 49 Miles/Day Drivers With No Tickets In 3 Years Should Do This On March  SEE MORE Sponsored Content by Comparisons.org  Community members protest outside the Diplomat Beach Resort in Hollywood Community members protest outside the Diplomat Beach Resort in Hollywood Protesters congregate in front of the Diplomat Beach Resort in Hollywood to rally against President Trump's "zero-tolerance" immigration policy on Saturday June 30, 2018. (Yutao Chen / South Florida Sun Sentinel)  1 / 15 Some who showed up to the rally were seasoned anti-Trump demonstrators, others were new to immigration activism. Some parents said they feel compelled to show up after gut-wrenching accounts of children forcibly taken from their families as they crossed the border illegally.  In West Palm Beach, Haug said the past few weeks have been a nonstop stream of reasons to protest against the current administration. To the idea of children being separated from their parents, “I had a visceral reaction,” Haug said. “I just can’t imagine separating kids from their parents at the border after a harrowing trip through Mexico.”   ADVERTISING  Rucsandra Vitere, 23, is an Orlando area school teacher who joined the Hollywood demonstrators in support of some of her students who came from trouble-spots in Venezuela, Guatemala, and especially Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria, she said.   Breaking News Alerts Newsletter As it happens Get updates on developing stories as they happen with our free breaking news email alerts. ENTER YOUR EMAIL ADDRESS  “I came out here because I teach a lot of immigrant children,” she said. “I’m the daughter of a refugee, my mom, who came here in the early 90s seeking asylum from Romania.”  Miramar resident Laurie Woodward Garcia participates in the rally against President Trump's "zero-tolerance" immigration policy outside the Diplomat Beach Resort in Hollywood on Saturday June 30, 2018. Miramar resident Laurie Woodward Garcia participates in the rally against President Trump's "zero-tolerance" immigration policy outside the Diplomat Beach Resort in Hollywood on Saturday June 30, 2018. (Yutao Chen / Sun Sentinel) Twylia Fannin is a self-described feminist, activist and mother from Miami who is a regular participant for causes like keeping families together. She marched in Hollywood.  “It’s not just Trump, it’s the Republican leadership,” she said. “[They] could do something about this … but they just keep their mouths closed while we lose our democracy.”  The protest in Sanborn Square in Boca Raton, beginning at 11:30 a.m., included a voter registration effort. Counter protesters drove by, waving a middle finger at protesters; some had Trump speeches blasting from their cars. But the rally went on.  “The main message is to show more love, compassion and humanity when creating these immigration policies,” said Naomi Glanzman, with a Boca activism group. “Vote out these people … We want to get more people in the voting booth.”
85	adjudicated	1	Hundreds of Dallas students staged walkouts and many Latino-owned businesses in North Texas closed Thursday as part of Un Dia Sin Immigrantes or A Day Without Immigrants, a national strike underscoring immigrant contributions to U.S. life. Later Thursday night, hundreds of people packed the Mexican Consulate in Dallas to share their fears and advice in light of the President's executive orders on immigration.  In Austin, protesters marched on the Capitol Thursday as part of a citywide effort that called on area immigrants to shut down businesses, stay home from school and work, and refrain from patronizing stores and restaurants.    Advertisement  FEATURED ON DALLAS NEWSTracker dslogo Tornado watch in effect for North Texas counties through 7 a.m. Wednesday Immigrants across the country went on strike Thursday to highlight their economic importance to a new administration that has taken a hard-line stance on immigration policies.  Click here to see photos of A Day Without Immigrants in Dallas, Austin,  and Sherman, Texas:
86	adjudicated	3	CENTRAL FLORIDA -- Throughout Central Florida, hundreds gathered on Saturday for the "Families Belong Together" march -- a protest of the Trump administration's zero tolerance policy on illegal immigration, as well as to call for the reunification of families and children who were separated at the border.   Residents marched to 'bring families together' on Saturday Protests held in Orlando, DeLand, Melbourne RELATED: Protesters flood US cities to fight Trump immigration policy Protests were held in downtown Orlando, DeLand, and Melbourne.  "Inhumane situation that these families are being put in and cannot allow this to happen," Karen Caudillo said.   Becka Niemczyk walked across the Eau Gallie Causeway in Melbourne with her children along with hundreds of others.  "Kids should not be separated from their parents. That's the whole point, they are parents," Niemczyk said.   Many people were wearing white to symbolize peace and unity. Those protesting wanted to see the children reunited with their families.  In DeLand, hundreds of people of all ages came together as one, marching near city hall.   "To bring the family together, right away, not waiting around for who knows how long," Dorothy Wilson said. 
87	adjudicated	4	Demonstrators rallied across the USA on Saturday to protest President Donald Trump's "zero tolerance" immigration policy.   Organizers say the gatherings provide a forum for people to call out the president's broader push to limit legal and illegal immigration, from his controversial travel ban to his ending deportation protections for hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants.  Here are snapshots of the coast-to-coast protests:  Arizona Nearly 200 people gathered in Nogales, Arizona, on Saturday for a Families Belong Together march at the Arizona-Mexico border.  Dozens of participants showed up wearing white and carrying signs denouncing family separations.  The purpose of the march, according to organizers, is to show support for the long line of mostly Central American families camped out in Nogales, Sonora, across the border in Mexico, who are waiting for a chance to claim asylum.  The march began at Ambos Nogales, a park within sight of the border fence that separates the two cities.  A little before noon, protesters temporarily blocked an intersection heading to the DeConcini port of entry. They marched to the port and chanted “Tear down the wall.”  About 800 people attended another rally in Phoenix, the state capital.   California Hundreds of protesters dressed in white gathered at the Collection in Oxnard, California, to decry the separation of migrant children and their parents.  As the crowd marched, they held signs and chanted “Vote,” “Hey, hey. Ho, ho. Donald Trump has got to go,” “This is what democracy looks like.”   The diverse crowd was a family affair with many people attending with their children.   Martha Gutierrez of Port Hueneme was at the rally with her husband, sister-in-law and mother. She’s from Colombia. She attended the event because she wants to “let the president know we need to treat immigrants like humans,” she said in Spanish. “Protection of families and not separating kids from parents should be a priority.”  Vicki Cortez, 31, a first-generation American whose father is an immigrant from Mexico, was among an estimated 750 people crowding all four corners of a busy intersection in Ventura.  "For me to be separated from him would have been such a disheartening experience," said Cortez, who lives in Oxnard.   Cortez, who works for a school district, said she has seen children left behind get taken care of by the community. But youngsters separated from family through new enforcement policies don't have that, she noted.  "There is no one to take care of them," she said.  Many motorists honked in support as they traveled through the intersection, with attendees waving and cheering in response. Several big rigs blasted air horns, eliciting loud applause and cheers from the hundreds stretched along sidewalks.  Get the Everyone's Talking newsletter in your inbox. Get caught up with the trending news you need to know  Delivery: Mon - Fri Your Email Florida About 500 protestors gathered around the Old Lee County courthouse in Fort Myers, Florida. Despite steamy temperatures in the 90s, protesters packed the courthouse steps while others gathered under trees or whatever shade they could find.  Richard Schaffer, 74, who moved to Fort Myers from North Dakota six years ago, wore an Uncle Sam suit with red, white and blue. He usually wears the attire for sports events and as a way to greet veterans.  “I’ve never been active with the Democratic or Republican party,” he said. “But I can’t stand it anymore. I have to participate.  “I can’t believe what I’m seeing. This is not the country I was born in 75 years ago. I need to do something. I just can’t complain.”  At Jensen Beach southeast of Port St. Lucie, about 200 people rallied Saturday.  John Warner and Diane Morgan brought their bloodhound, Gwendolyn, to the demonstration. The pet had a sign that read "Dogs care."  About 200 protesters gathered for a Families Belong Together rally at the corner of Jensen Beach Boulevard and U.S. 1 on Saturday, June 30, 2018, in Jensen Beach. Indiana More than 200 people gathered outside the Winfield K. Denton federal building in Evansville, Indiana, waving protest signs and chanting phrases such as "Children are not political pawns."   Joyce Stamm, a professor of biology at the University of Evansville, has a firsthand perspective on immigration, having come to the United States from Singapore where she was born and raised.  "People say, 'Oh, just get in line,'" she said, referring to the legal process of immigration, "but what I think people don't understand is how difficult it is to 'get in line.' It's a very difficult process, even if you have the money and means. For people in economic distress, and adding in the language barrier, it becomes almost impossible."  Iowa Several hundred people attended a rally at the Iowa Capitol building in Des Moines. Speakers at the event had their words translated into Spanish.    Kentucky  A protest in downtown Louisville splintered in two Saturday as half of the crowd abandoned the organized rally to march instead to an Immigration and Customs Enforcement office, chanting "shut down ICE!” along the way.  Many among the crowd appeared confused by the sudden division. Roughly 200 marched a half-mile from Metro Hall to the ICE offices. There, several speakers criticized Democratic Mayor Greg Fischer for not declaring Louisville a sanctuary city and for allowing Louisville Metro Police to assist federal agents.   Michigan Hundreds of people marched, chanted and waved homemade signs in downtown Detroit as they criticized immigration policies that have left children separated from their parents.   Cindy Garcia, 46, of Lincoln Park spoke to the crowd gathered outside the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center.  “What happened to me and my family is a nightmare,” she said.  Her husband, Jorge Garcia, was deported to Mexico in January. He lived in the U.S. for decades with no criminal record and now their children are suffering, Cindy Garcia said.  “People need to know my story,” she said. “People need to know how it is to be affected. It is very hard.”   Mississippi Reginald Virgil of Hattiesburg joined a rally in front of the Governor's Mansion in Jackson. He said he felt it was important to attend the rally to give a voice to the voiceless and represent people of color who are being mistreated in the country.   "This is America, supposedly the greatest country, and we need to act like it. We need to show that we need to treat everybody with dignity and respect," Virgil said.   New Jersey Several hundred people gathered along Route 206 in Bedminster on Saturday morning, holding signs showing their disagreement with the policies of the Trump administration. That's just a few miles away from Trump National Golf Course, where the president is spending the weekend.  Weekly protests have been going on here since the president’s election, but this is one of the largest turnouts since the events began. Before the rally, the weekly motorcade that runs from the library to the golf course and back occurred.  An organizer said that this was the largest rally they have had since this effort began, with some 400 people in attendance.  More:Where is Trump? President is at his golf resort in New Jersey as thousands protest in DC  Some protesters chanted, “Where are the children!”  Jack Gavin of West Caldwell, New Jersey, handed out miniature copies of the U.S. Constitution, “Facts Matter” pins and cold drinks.  Gavin said he planned on attending similar protests later in Newark and Clifton.  “For years I was interested and voted, but otherwise uninvolved,” Gavin said. “Now our democracy is in danger, so it’s all hands on deck.”   In Newark, early arrivals carried banners with the words “Hate Never Made Anything Great” and “We are the people a nation of immigrants” before an 11 a.m. rally started.  New Jersey Sens. Bob Menendez and Cory Booker delivered speeches denouncing the immigration policies of Trump's administration.  In New Brunswick, a crowd of over 500 people gathered outside City Hall at 10 a.m.   The crowd included people of all ages and backgrounds, holding signs adorned with slogans like: "I Stand for Kids," "Zero Tolerance = Zero Morality," "Make Racism Wrong Again," "What You’re Doing Is Not Making America Great or Safe," and "Families Belong Together, Not in Cages."  “No kind of caging of any kind of human is humane in any circumstances,” said one of the organizers of the event, Sarwat Malik-Hassan. “This is not the America that my parents brought me to, this is not how people should be living; people immigrate here to get away from all this and we’re back at square one.”  In Asbury Park, about 300 people attended a rally amid scorching summer temperatures.   New Mexico More than 150 people attended a rally in front of a museum in Farmington, New Mexico.   More than a dozen children led the crowd in the Pledge of Allegiance.  “I always thought that all my time in the United States was calm,” said Gloria Portillo, who came to the United States more than 20 years ago from Juarez in the state of Chihuahua, Mexico.  Portillo, who lives in San Juan County, said the sense of calm changed with the Trump’s administration "zero tolerance" policy. She said she is now afraid to call the police to report crimes.  New York About 500 people gathered at the Bernie Milton Pavilion in Ithaca, New York. One sign at the rally: "Nazi's separated families. We shall not."  In Elmira, dozens of people gathered at Wisner Park late Saturday morning.  “Keeping families together isn’t a Republican issue or a Democratic issue. It’s a human rights issue,” said Elizabeth Brown-Shook.   Some 250 people turned out in Rhinebeck, N.Y., many of them children. Saxton Terranova, 13, was there with his mother and two younger siblings. He held a handmade poster with a caricature of President Donald Trump reading “Don’t be a chump.” Saxton said he and his parents had discussed the current affairs at home.  “It would be a traumatic experience,” he said, if he were separated from his parents. “I think I would not know what to do and, if it happened, who would take care of me. I mean, there are some problems with immigration, but this is not the way to go.”   Oregon Several hundred people rallied Saturday next to the Oregon Capitol in Salem.  "I know what it is to feel fear. I know what it feels like to think that your loved ones might be deported," state Rep. Teresa Alonso Leon, a Democrat from Woodburn, told the crowd. "I have not been able to sleep well because our country is hurting. Our children are hurting. Our families are hurting.  More than 15 protests took place across Oregon, including in Portland, Coos Bay, Redmond, Eugene and Roseburg.  Hundreds of Oregonians gathered at the state capitol Saturday to protest immigrant families being separated at the U.S. border by immigration officials. Pennsylvania About 100 participants gathered in Continental Square in York, Pennsylvania. When asked, "Why are you here today?" John Terlazzo responded: “Because I’m sane.”  “This whole regime is an atrocity. And I don’t care who you are, you don’t mess with children," Terlazzo said.   South Carolina A rally at Graham Plaza in Greenville, South Carolina, drew a crowd of about 250 people Saturday — a mix of young families and older folks.  The rally kicked off at 9 a.m. and lasted until about 11:30 a.m., ending with people standing in one line side-by-side, forming a “unity wall” down Main Street.  Co-organizer Mallory Pellegrino had her son on her mind as she was setting up Saturday morning.   “It’s easy for us all to think well I would never put my kid in that kind of danger. But I think of the quote, ‘You don’t put your kid in a boat unless the water is safer than the land.’"  Tennessee Local police estimated 1,000 people participated in a Nashville rally Saturday that included a walk from Fannie Mae Park to Belmont University.  Ann Delevante,  center, and her daughters show off their shirts during the Families Belong Together rally in Nashville. "As a mom, this issue is a no brainer," said Delevante, "They're not refugees, they're people."  Alejandro Guizar, 25, came to Knoxville from Mexico as a young boy with his family.  Guizar, who now lives in Nashville, said he spent years going through the public school system ignoring the fact he was undocumented.   “People are starting to realize what many of us already knew,” he said. “There is not a lack of undocumented people here. There is a lack of immigrants not afraid to speak out.”   Texas In Austin, Texas, people carrying signs and bottles of water streamed onto the grounds of the Texas Capitol two hours before a rally was scheduled to start.  While much of the sprawling grounds in front of the Capitol were covered with demonstrators, an accurate estimation of the crowd size was not available. But organizers were expecting between 10,000 and 30,000 people, based on responses to its events page on Facebook.  The temperature hovered around 100 degrees during the event.  Not everyone at the event was there to protest the administration's immigration policies. Jorge Machado, a student at Texas State University in nearby San Marcos, said there's a middle ground between zero-tolerance and open borders.   "The immigration situation was years in the making," said Machado, the son of an immigrant, who carried a sign saying "Talk with a Mexican-American conservative about anything."  "The one good thing that has come out of Trump's policy is that we're all talking about. Maybe something will get done."  In El Paso, several hundred people took part in a rally at the front of the Paso del Norte international bridge Saturday.  "We are so tired of the racist, anti-immigrant agenda of this administration. This administration is putting (immigrant) families in danger," Fernando Garcia, one of the El Paso rally organizers, told the crowd as he stood in the back of a white pickup truck parked just outside the international port of entry.  At a rally in Corpus Christi, Nancy Vera, president of the Corpus Christi American Federation of Teachers, said the Trump administration's policy is a racist act.  "I am disgusted that the United States is torturing families by separating the children from their parents," she said. "I feel like I am a stranger in my own country. This is not the United States I grew up in."  Virginia In Staunton, Virginia, two separate rallies converged Saturday morning — one starting at Gypsy Hill Park and another at the Augusta County Courthouse in downtown Staunton.  One person held a bullhorn and played the sounds of crying immigrants.  "This issue resonates with me because of my family history," said Ellen Werther of Staunton. Her family was torn apart before World War II in Nazi Germany.   "It started with name calling, it started with isolating," she said. "This is how it starts."  Participants at the Families Belong Together March at Staunton's Gypsy Hill Park on Saturday, June 30, 2018. They chanted, "Love not hate makes America great." In the small town of Onancock — population just under 1,300 — about 60 people marched.  The “Rally for the Children” organized by a grassroots committee saw residents march through the streets and gather at a local park, carrying American flags.  Wisconsin Hundreds of people marched in the Milwaukee suburb of Shorewood, the first of several rallies planned in Wisconsin on Saturday.  "I have five children, so this issue is really upsetting to me. I believe it’s utter cruelty to separate children from their parents," said Erin Cassidente of Menomonee Falls, who turned out with members of her Mennonite church. "As a country, we need to treat people better."  Several hundred people rallied in Shorewood Saturday morning to protest U.S. immigration policies and the separation of children from their families. In Green Bay, about 700 protesters descended along the Fox River in the city's downtown, while in the Fox Valley, at least a couple hundred took to the streets of Appleton and about 100 marched in Oshkosh.  "Zero tolerance is another word for dehumanization,” said Rissel Peguero Almonte, who helped organize the rally in Green Bay.  In Wausau, Chris Norfleet said he attended to show support for migrants and to encourage residents to vote in the fall elections.  "We should have the ability to treat human beings as human beings," Norfleet said. "Sometimes you have to do things despite difficult situations."   While the tone was mostly peaceful in Wausau, one counter-protester shouted "build the wall" from a distance before driving away, and two others who said they didn't agree with the protest stood to the side and observed.
88	adjudicated	3	More than 500 people walked the streets of Gainesville Saturday evening to stand in solidarity with immigrant families that have been separated at the U.S. border.  The march was organized to bring attention to the current immigration situation in which families are being separated from their children due to current policies at the border.  Participants started gathering at City Hall around 4:30 p.m. and walked to Depot Park about an hour later. As they made their way down University Avenue and Main Street, they shouted multiple chants to bring attention to the rally.  "Hey hey, ho ho. Zero tolerance has got to go!"  Before they left City Hall, Gainesville City Commissioner Harvey Ward spoke to the participants thanking them for taking the time to come out to the march.   The commissioner was shocked at the response from the community given the high chance of rain that was expected to happen throughout the event. He was happily surprised when he saw more than 100 people come out.  “It’s amazing,” Ward said. “I think America believes we should be a hopeful and welcoming place.”  Ward was joined by his wife Gillian and their three daughters, Resli, 13; Lela, 10; and Kennedy, 7.   Together, the girls decorated a sign at City Hall using colored markers that read, “Keep Families Together Dump Trump.” The poster also pictured stick figures holding hands.  “It’s a good cause,” Resli, a Westwood Middle School student, said. “Even though we’re only citizens we can have a voice in what (President) Trump does…”  Margaret Hamer, the lead organizer for the Families Belong Together Alachua County March, was very excited about the feedback from the community leading up the march, especially given the weather situation.   Hamer, 37, started organizing the event with some other leaders about two weeks ago when she was talking to them on Facebook about what had been going on over the last few weeks.  “We’re all parents, we all have kids and we feel very strongly as U.S. citizens that it’s our role to stand up and say no when policies like this are enacted,” the Gainesville resident said.  As of Saturday, the Facebook event had about 1,400 people interested and about 600 that planned on attending.  Indivisible Gainesville, a local organization that aims at increasing voter turnout and participating in the civic process, helped co-sponsor the event.  Many of the participants wore white to historically signify prior civil rights protests, Hamer said. By wearing white, the march’s lead organizer believed they were linking themselves to civil events that have happened throughout history.  Su Mendez, a local resident, was not wearing white at the rally, but fully supported the cause.  “This is a monstrous situation,” Mendez said. “This is my country that was the land of the free and the idea that we’re treating families and children in this way is incredibly frightening.”  Mendez added it’s the complete opposite of the values that America stands for. She was also very excited to see a voter registration booth open at the rally.  “There should always be a voter registration booth, everywhere,” she said.
89	adjudicated	3	A protest in downtown Louisville against the Trump administration’s immigration policies splintered in two Saturday as half of the crowd abandoned the organized rally to instead march to the Immigration and Customs Enforcement office, chanting "shut down ICE!” along the way.  Many among the crowd, which reached into the hundreds, appeared confused by the sudden division.  But Isai “Izzy” Sanchez, 20, who called for the spontaneous march, said the move was necessary.  'Families Belong Together' rally at Metro Hall in downtown Louisville, Ky.  June 30, 2018 "I look at our local politicians not reflecting what their constituents think,” Sanchez said from a podium atop the steps of Metro Hall. “A compassionate city or mayor would not hesitate when it comes to the sanctuary of others.”  Sanchez joined roughly 200 others in the half-mile march from Metro Hall to the ICE offices on Seventh Street. There, several other speakers criticized Democratic Mayor Greg Fischer for not declaring Louisville a sanctuary city and for allowing Louisville Metro Police to assist federal agents.   Nationally:'Where are the children!' Families Belong Together rallies take over US  Earlier coverage:Trump administration says Louisville is not a sanctuary city and complies with federal law  State Rep. Attica Scott, also a Democrat, was among the critics.   “Make sure you go down to Metro Hall, make sure you confront the mayor and Metro Council every chance you get, and say to them, ‘Make Louisville a sanctuary city,’" she said.    A sanctuary city is considered one that defies federal law by shielding immigrants who entered the country illegally from being deported.   Fischer changed the city's policies last year to prohibit Louisville police from working with ICE on their sting operations. Metro Council solidified that change by approving an ordinance that forbids Louisville police from helping immigration agents unless a judge signs a warrant or if federal officials alert police of a risk of violence or larger danger to the public.   While the U.S. Department of Justice initially threatened to cut some federal public safety grants over that police, this year those same federal officials announced reviewed the ordinance and decided Louisville was not a sanctuary city.  In a statement to the Courier Journal on Saturday, Fischer said sanctuary city is "a political term."  "Louisville is a city of compassion, a global and welcoming city whose population growth has largely been fueled by internationals," Fischer said. "... We continue to stand with our foreign-born neighbors while humanely complying with all applicable laws."  Earlier in the day, Fischer participated in the rally outside his office at Metro Hall. Speaking to the hundreds who remained after the protest split in two, Fischer spoke out against President Trump's "zero tolerance" immigration policies, including those that in recent months have separated migrant parents from their children.  The rally was among more than 600 "Families Belong Together" marches planned across the country on Saturday.  Faced with widespread criticism of the family separations, Trump issued an executive order on June 20 to stop the practice. A federal judge has since ordered the government to reunite children under 5 years old with their parents within 14 days and all other children within 30 days.  Immigration advocates say thousands of children remain in limbo, staying in foster homes or detention centers while waiting to be reunited with their parents.  Story continues below gallery   On Saturday, protesters chanted for an end to family separation.  Most were clad in white, a color organizers said would demonstrate the solidarity of activists across the country. Many sought refuge from the sweltering heat in the few pockets of shade available. At least one woman received medical attention due to heat exhaustion.  As U2’s “Beautiful Day” pumped from speakers perched atop Metro Hall's steps, Art Baltes paced back and forth below holding a banner that read “Immigrants and Refugees Welcome.”  Baltes, of Louisville, said his Catholic faith spurred him to attend the rally.  “That’s exactly where it starts — our faith,” he said. “We just want people to know that people in this town support immigrants and refugees.”  Fred Nett, also of Louisville, held a poster of Lady Liberty that read “freedom for all.”  Migrant families separated at the Mexico border “should be reunited immediately,” he said.   Sanchez, who called for the crowd to march to ICE, said the second protest wasn't intended to sow division.  Instead, Sanchez said he hoped it would draw attention to grassroots organizations such as Mijente that advocate for Louisville's immigrant and refugee communities on a daily basis.   Sanchez, a student at the University of Louisville, came to the U.S. from Mexico when he was a toddler. As a Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals recipient, his legal status is uncertain due to the Trump administration's policies.  “The real action will come from people who dedicated more than one afternoon,” he said.”  
90	adjudicated	3	The heart of Philadelphia's Italian Market was uncommonly quiet. Fine restaurants in New York, San Francisco and the nation's capital closed for the day. Grocery stores, food trucks, coffee shops and taco joints in places like Chicago, Los Angeles and Boston to Salt Lake City, Ogden and Midvale shut down.  Immigrants around the U.S. stayed home from work and school Thursday to demonstrate how important they are to America's economy and way of life, and many businesses closed in solidarity, in a nationwide protest called A Day Without Immigrants.  The boycott was aimed squarely at President Donald Trump's efforts to crack down on immigration, legal and illegal, by such means as a wall at the Mexican border. Organizers said they expected thousands to participate or otherwise show support.  The protest even reached into the U.S. Capitol, where a Senate coffee shop was among the eateries that were closed as employees did not show up at work.  The day's activities also included rallies in several cities.  Jodi and Jesus Perez, owners of Prime Auto Inc., closed their Salt Lake City business for the day. "Every single person that you have had contact with at Prime Auto is an immigrant," Jodi Perez wrote on the company's Facebook page. "I am so proud of them for their determination to come here for a better life. They have left many loved ones in Mexico and Venezuela, but they had dreams to make a better life, and I'm glad we can help."  Many food-related businesses in Utah also closed, including Beto's Mexican Food in Ogden and Clearfield, and Salt Lake City's Mestizo Coffee and Rancho Markets.  Shane Kemple, a Salt Lake City resident who was turned away from the Rancho Market at 140 N. 900 West by a sign on the door, supports the protest.  "I think that's very American of them," said Kemple. "That's what you're supposed to do."  Humberto Saldana, who manages two Metro PCS locations that were closed Thursday in protest, said being part of the protest gave him a sense of solidarity, and that in closing his stores, he supported immigrants and the nation.  Immigrants are "part of the economy, no matter what," said Saldana.  "Trump's plan to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border, his recently halted immigration ban, and his promise to pass more aggressive deportation policies, are harmful to our Latino and immigrant communities," Mestizo owners wrote on social media. "These communities make up an indispensable part of our economy. We will not stand by idly while we are belittled and our voices are quieted."  Music teacher Gabino Flores canceled his lessons for the day and stayed home from his Salt Lake City school, which he declined to name because he wasn't sure how the administration would react to his participation.  The protest is "just the beginning," said the U.S. citizen who emigrated from Mexico, and there is a misunderstanding between "American community and the Hispanic community" that needs to be talked about.  "We're not in a war, but we have to change things," he said. "The change is in us."  Marcela Ardaya-Vargas, who is from Bolivia and now lives in Falls Church, Va., pulled her son out of school to take him to a Day Without Immigrants march in Washington.  "When he asked why he wasn't going to school, I told him because today he was going to learn about immigration," she said, adding: "Our job as citizens is to unite with our brothers and sisters."  Organizers appealed to immigrants from all walks of life to take part, but the effects were felt most strongly in the restaurant industry, which has long been a first step up the economic ladder for newcomers to America with its many jobs for cooks, dishwashers and servers.  Expensive restaurants and fast-food joints alike closed across the country. Sushi bars, Brazilian steakhouses, Mexican eateries and Thai and Italian restaurants turned away lunchtime customers.  On Ninth Street in South Philadelphia's Italian Market, it was so quiet in the morning that Rani Vasudeva thought it might be Monday, when many of the businesses on the normally bustling stretch are closed.  Produce stands and other stalls along "Calle Nueve" — as 9th Street is more commonly known for its abundance of Mexican-owned businesses — stood empty, leaving customers to look elsewhere for fresh meat, bread, fruits and vegetables.  "It's actually very sad," said Vasudeva, a 38-year-old professor at Temple University. "You realize the impact the immigrant community has. We need each other for our daily lives."  At a White House news conference held at the same time as the lunch-hour protests, Trump boasted of his border security measures and immigration arrests of hundreds of people in the past week, saying, "We are saving lives every single day."  Since the end of 2007, the number of foreign-born workers employed in the U.S. has climbed by nearly 3.1 million to 25.9 million; they account for 56 percent of the increase in U.S. employment over that period, according to the Labor Department.  The foreign born — who include American citizens, green-card holders and those working without legal authorization — tend to be younger and to take jobs in fields that have been growing fastest, including restaurants, hotels and stores.  About 12 million people are employed in the restaurant industry, and immigrants make up the majority — up to 70 percent in places like New York and Chicago, according to the Restaurant Opportunities Centers United, which works to improve working conditions. An estimated 1.3 million in the industry are immigrants living in the U.S. illegally, the group said.  The construction industry, which also employs large numbers of immigrants, was also affected.  Shea Frederick, who owns a small construction company in Baltimore, showed up at 7 a.m. at a home he is renovating and was surprised to find that he was alone, with a load of drywall ready for install. He soon understood why: His crew, five immigrants, called to say they weren't coming to work. They were joining the protests.  "I had an entire day of full work," he said. "I have inspectors lined up to inspect the place, and now they're thrown off, and you do it the day before the weekend and it pushes things off even more. It sucks, but it's understandable."  Frederick said that while he fundamentally agrees with the action, and appreciates why his crew felt the need to participate, he feels his business is being made to suffer as a result of the president's policies.  "It's hurting the wrong people," he said. "A gigantic part of this state didn't vote this person in, and we're paying for his terrible decisions."  In New Mexico, the state with the largest percentage of Hispanics, school officials said hundreds of students might stay home.  Many people who skipped work will lose a day's pay or worse, and many student absences will not be excused. But organizers argued that the cause is worth the sacrifice.  "They are tired of their communities being criminalized," said Olivia Vazquez, a 22-year-old community organizer and a Mexican immigrant living in the U.S. illegally. "They're ready to fight back."  In New Orleans' Mid-City neighborhood, whose Latino population swelled after the damage wrought by Hurricane Katrina in 2005 created lots of jobs for construction workers, the Ideal Market was closed.  The place is usually busy at midday with people lining up at the steam tables for hot lunches or picking from an array of fresh Central American vegetables and fruits.  In Chicago, Pete's Fresh Market closed five of its 12 grocery stores and assured employees they would not be penalized for skipping the day, according to owner Vanessa Dremonas, whose Greek-immigrant father started the company.  "It's in his DNA to help immigrants," she said. "We've supported immigrants from the beginning."  Carmen Solis, a Mexico-born U.S. citizen, took the day off from work as a project manager and brought her two children to a rally in Chicago.  "I feel like our community is going to be racially profiled and harassed," she said of Trump's immigration policies. "It's very upsetting. People like to take out their anger on the immigrants, but employers are making profits off of them."  Among the well-known establishments that closed their doors in solidarity were three of acclaimed chef Silvana Salcido Esparza's restaurants in Phoenix; Michelin star RASA in San Francisco; and two Washington restaurants run by chef Jose Andres — Oyamel and Jaleo.  Tony and Marie Caschera, both 66, who were visiting Washington from Halfmoon, New York, thought a tapas restaurant looked interesting for lunch, but then realized the lights were off and the place was closed.  "I'm in support of what they're trying to say," said Marie Caschera, a registered Democrat, adding that immigrants are "fearful for their communities."  Her husband, a registered Republican whose family emigrated from Italy before World War II, said he supports legal immigration, but added: "I don't like illegal aliens here."  — Associated Press reporter Errin Haines Whack contributed to this story.
91	adjudicated	1	LANSING — Shirell Reddick of Lansing says her 9-year-old daughter inspired her to turn out for a "Families Belong Together" rally Saturday afternoon at the state Capitol lawn.  More than 1,000 people braved a 100-degree heat index to protest against hard-line immigration policies and to call for detained migrant children to be reunited immediately with their parents.  Similar protests erupted across the nation following news reports about children and parents being separated by U.S. authorities while the families are detained under suspicion of illegally crossing the U.S.-Mexico border.  People attending the Families Belong Together rally at the state Capitol in Lansing on Saturday, June 30, 2018 seek out the shade to escape temperatures in the mid-90s. Faced with widespread criticism, President Donald Trump signed an executive order on June 20 that he says will prevent the U.S. Department of Homeland Security from splitting up detained families.  Trump has pledged, however, to continue his "zero tolerance" policies on illegal immigration.
92	adjudicated	3	About 100 people rallied Thursday evening as part of the national “Day Without Immigrants” boycott, gathering in Memorial Park to show the impact of the absence of their contribution to America’s economy and workforce.  “Throughout this Nation, we are asking all of our immigrants not to work and not to purchase anything so that people can truly see the value and the work that we do as immigrants here in this Nation,” said Jorge Chacón. “It’s a way of saying economically we are excellent consumers and also we are excellent workers. If immigrants are deported, for sure, it will be felt by everybody–there will be no exceptions.”  Many schools throughout the Valley also noticed a spike in absences Teresa Bendito, a student in the Wenatchee Valley, participated in the boycott and rally to support her parents and to stand up for other immigrants. Bendiot said she was using her right as a citizen to speak freely and rally.  “For me, being a U.S. citizen, it is very important to stand up for those who are too afraid to be here,” she said. “We may not be too many here, but we know we are representing a lot more people who are afraid of coming out, and that’s why we’re here.”   Teresa Bondito, rally participant Benito said it is important to appreciate those immigrants who work in the Valley’s fruit industry.  “Without that labor, Wenatchee would not be what it is today and we would not be able to celebrate our Apple Blossom Festival without them,” Bendito said.  The boycott came in response to the Trump Administration’s intent to crackdown on undocumented immigrants and the now-blocked executive order that banned citizens from seven predominantly Muslim countries.
93	adjudicated	4	Jamie Vargas yelled until her voice was hoarse as chants of “The town is here” in Spanish and “USA, USA” in English echoed across Town Square.  A senior at Jackson Hole High School, Vargas and her friend Nesley Corona helped turn the national “A Day Without Immigrants” protest into a local march for justice and immigrant rights.  “No one should have to live in fear of their families being separated,” Vargas said. “We are a big population in Jackson. Without us, there’s not a lot.”   Protests spread across the U.S. on Thursday as immigrants and supporters were encouraged to not go to work, not open businesses, not spend money or send their children to school. The actions were intended to show how crucial immigrants and their families are to the economy and daily life in America.  In Jackson, nearly 150 people marched 3 miles from the high school along Broadway to the square. Vargas and Corona said they wanted to be more productive with their time out of school and didn’t expect so many people to show up.  They gathered under the arches with flags and signs: “We are not rapists, we are not drug dealers, we are not stealing,” “I only want to work” and “Immigrant rights are human rights.”  Big brothers marched with toddler sisters. Friends walked together, looking determined.  Vargas stood in the front of the crowd to lead chants.  “Who are we?” she yelled.  “Immigrants!” the crowd hollered back.  “What do we want?”  “Justice!”  “When?” Vargas shouted.  “Now!” the crowd roared.  Participants included U.S. residents, recent immigrants and residents living in the country without legal permission.  “We hope people will respect us,” Melaniye Perez, 12, said. “We are marching for our rights.”  Picnic and Persephone Bakery closed their kitchens Thursday. Pica’s Mexican Taqueria closed in solidarity, and restaurants in the Fine Dining Group said they had to work as a team to cover shifts and be supportive of their co-workers.    But the event was about more than just economics.  The current administration under President Trump has increased worries for some immigrants. His proposed wall between Mexico and the United States, the recent immigration ban halting immigrants from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen — struck down by the 9th Circuit Court — and his remarks like calling Mexicans “bad hombres” haven’t helped assuage fears of deportation.  “It’s hard to think about a future here,” said Kenia Perez, 16. “We are trying not to get our hopes up.”  Other high schoolers are taking note of the current political climate.  “We want Americans to know what it’s like, a day without Mexicans and without immigrants. Trump has said a lot of stuff, so we wanted to make a statement,” said Hector Bedolla, a junior at Jackson Hole High School.  Anahi Garcia isn’t an immigrant, but her parents are. She said she came to the protest for them.  “They feel like they don’t have a voice,” Garcia said. “When I see the news, it’s heartbreaking. They focus on the bad people, not the good people.”  Sammy Lopez, a freshman at the high school, said her parents, who didn’t work Thursday, supported her absence from school. She played off Trump’s campaign slogan to explain why she thought the protest was important.  “Our parents have worked really hard,” Lopez said. They came here for more opportunities and for a better life. We believe immigrants do make America great.”  Response to the protests seemed civil. A few protesters said that they were given rude gestures as they walked into town and that a few cars slowed down to yell at them. Most people driving by Town Square honked and waved in support. One car stopped to let a passenger hand out bottled water to marchers.  Not everyone thinks protests are the best way to advance immigrant rights.  Hoback Junction resident Carol Parker said it seems “immoral” to involve immigrants in political games and feels protests around the issue are ways that political parties promote their platform.  “At the end of the day, the immigrants still don’t win,” Parker said. “We need to have more respect for these amazing, hardworking, lovely people.”  Local schools reported higher-than-normal absences Thursday, but Teton County School District No. 1’s information coordinator Charlotte Reynolds said some absences might be due to the long Presidents’ Day weekend approaching or reports of illness.  At Colter Elementary School, total absences ranged from 16 to 27 earlier in the week. But on Thursday, there were 74 reported absences, with 54 of them Latino students. Jackson Hole Middle School reported 72 absences, with 46 of them Latino.  Corona said she notified her teachers Wednesday afternoon that she, and others, would be missing class.  “They were supportive,” she said. “They said they wished they’d been told sooner. They would’ve come.”
94	adjudicated	1	DPS is blocking the ramps at the I-10 and 16th St as people protest on a nearby overpass.   By: abc15.com staffPosted at 3:24 PM, Feb 17, 2017 and last updated 6:31 PM, Feb 17, 2017 A group of protesters lined 16th Street over the I-10 Friday afternoon with signs, to protest President Trump’s immigration policies.  Valley agencies closed traffic ramps from Interstate 10 to 16th Street before the group arrived in preparation, but the protesters have so far made no attempt to try to enter the freeway ramps.  The protest was promoted on social media to start at 4 p.m. a block away from the freeway.     In a Facebook invite called “Anti-Fascist march and #General Strike,” the organizer urged people to meet at Los Altos Ranch Market, near Roosevelt and 16th streets, at 4 p.m. on Friday.  According to a description on the page, they’ll be standing up for all immigrants, documented and undocumented.  DPS and Phoenix Police confirmed to ABC15 they "have a plan in place to work with other law enforcement and governmental partners."  So far no injuries and no arrests have been reproted as part of the protest.  Traffic on the main lanes of I-10 are flowing normally as of 5 p.m.
95	adjudicated	3	NEW YORK/LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - A second consecutive day of protests against U.S. President Donald Trump’s month-old administration appeared to lose momentum on Friday, with rallies in Chicago, Los Angeles and New York attracting small yet enthusiastic crowds.   Demonstrators march during the "Day Without Immigrants" protest in Chicago, Illinois, February 16, 2017. REUTERS/Theopolis Waters Activists had called for a “general strike” a day after thousands of immigrants across the United States stayed home from work and school during “A Day Without Immigrants” to highlight the contributions of foreign-born workers to the American economy.  Strike4Democracy, one of the groups organizing Friday’s strike, said more than 100 public protests were expected around the country.  In New York, more than 16,000 people responded to a Facebook page set up for a rally at Washington Square Park in Manhattan, but fewer than 200 protesters were at the park an hour after the posted start time.  Crystal Thornebrooke, one of the organizers, said the event was intended to spark discussions about how activists can make progress in fighting Trump’s agenda.  “Introducing ourselves to people, hearing people, hearing their concerns with our administration and then build from there - this is the preliminary stages of organization,” she said.  In downtown Los Angeles, a rally at the Regent Theater drew about 60 demonstrators, waving signs and chanting, “Fight ignorance, not immigrants.”  “I have friends and family members who are undocumented immigrants, and I’m scared for them to be deported,” said Priscilla Alburquenque, a 20-year-old college student.  Some protesters said Thursday’s walkout may have sapped some of the energy for Friday’s action.  “The immigration event yesterday was a big event, but not everyone can be at them all,” said Joe Balkis, a retired United Parcel Service worker who was one of approximately 75 protesters at Daley Plaza in Chicago.  Trump has vowed to crack down on illegal immigration and signed an executive order, which was put on hold by federal courts, restricting entry from seven Muslim-majority countries. Those policies, along with a series of federal raids last week, have alarmed immigrant rights’ groups.  Strike4Democracy urged Americans to stay away from work, donate their lunch money to a worthy cause and contact congressional representatives about the strike.  Since his Jan. 20 inauguration, Trump has faced a steady stream of protests and marches, highlighted by mass rallies focused on women’s rights that drew millions of people around the globe on the day after he was sworn in.
96	adjudicated	2	About 150 Rubidoux High students walked out of school early Friday afternoon to protest disparaging Facebook posts and comments teachers made about those who participated in Thursday’s national boycott, “A Day Without Immigrants.”  They held Mexican flags and chanted, “Mexico, Mexico!” and “Que Viva la Raza!” as they walked on sidewalks and in the middle of streets. Many wore red as a sign of unity, as a flier announcing the march had asked.  As students made their way toward Patriot High and walked back to Rubidoux High, drivers honked in approval and cheered them on.  Students were protesting by noon Friday and Riverside County sheriff’s deputies were at the scene keeping protesters and the general public safe.  RELATED: Social media reaction to Rubidoux High teachers’ comments on immigration  Students march at Mission & Camino Real in Jurupa Valley as it starts to rain pic.twitter.com/KpP3cl78wP  — Alicia Robinson (@arobinson_pe) February 17, 2017  Some educators applauded the fact that Latino students missed class on Thursday for the national “A Day Without Immigrants” boycott. The comments included statements calling students “lazy” and “drunk” and noted that the cafeteria was cleaner without them.   Social science teacher Geoffrey Greer started the thread Thursday afternoon by saying that having 50 percent fewer students proves “how much better things might be without all this overcrowding.”  UPDATE: Rubidoux High teachers on leave for ‘Day Without Immigrants’ social media posts  Freshman student Vianey Camacho, 14, said many of the students became aware of the teachers’ comments through social media Thursday night.  And teachers, she said, acted like “it was a normal day” Friday. The comments were not addressed in class, she said.  Camacho said students planned not to buy anything from the student store, as a boycott, to protest the teachers’ comments.  The walkout “kind of just happened.”  She said some walked out during lunch, and soon others followed.  Others, however, stayed in school and participated in a peaceful sit-in inside. Those students said “they wanted to do it the right way.”  Victoria Rodriguez, a Rubidoux student, said the walkout protests “didn’t prove anything.”  Throughout the walkout, students expressed their disappointment with hearing those kind of comments coming from teachers, especially some they looked up to. Former students also marched.  RELATED: From taco trucks to Latino markets, owners shut down in support of immigrants  Students Christopher Maldonado and Isaias Torres, both juniors, waved a Mexican flag as they led the group walking back to their high school.  Maldonado said they were marching to, “Show them that we have a voice, too.”  “He (Greer) can’t make all those comments. It made us feel disrespected.”  Bernice Meza, 17, watched what started as a peaceful protest during lunch become chaotic. Some students tried to put up the Mexican flag on the flagpole, she said. Others ran, threw food and tried to leave campus but the gate was locked.  Other than some graffiti on a classroom, Duchon said he wasn’t aware of any wrongdoing by students.  Riverside County sheriff’s spokesman Michael Vasquez said no one was arrested and that rumors of students jumping on cars or committing vandalism were false.  Duchon said school officials wanted to let students exercise freedom of expression. Keeping them from harm was “our only goal – we’re not about punishment,” he said.  Students walking to school in the morning found the atmosphere much more tranquil.  Freshman Terrell Ladd, 15, said he liked Baugh, his science teacher, until he read Baugh’s post saying his classes were “quieter and more productive” with 49 absences and that the teacher wanted to see the situation repeated.  “It’s crazy,” Ladd said. “They put it on social media thinking nobody would go off on them. I feel bad for the students because they’re not troublemakers.”  Meza, who didn’t participate in the walkout because she was in the office talking to administrators, said she was disappointed in some of her classmates’ behavior.  “I feel like it’s giving us a bad image,” Meza said. “People are going to associate us with people who are choosing to be disruptive and people who want to leave class just to leave class. Not everyone in this movement is violent. Not everyone wants to walk out of class and vandalize everything. We want to let everyone know that we’re not going to be suppressed.”  Meza, an honors student with a 4.1 GPA, said she took Advanced Placement history class last year from Greer, whose post began the string of comments in question. Greer was opinionated and controversial but challenged students to think, she said.  Meza said she no longer admires Greer.  “Now we know what he really thinks of us,” she said.  Back at the school, parents gathered, waiting for their kids.  Berenice Saldaña, who has a daughter who is a freshman student, said she understands people have a right to freedom of speech, but she felt the teacher’s comments were rude.  “I told my daughter, ‘Let’s protest, but with respect and dignity,’” she said  Saldaña said her daughter participated in the peaceful protest inside the school.  “The students are offended. I’m offended,” Saldaña said.  Staff writer Alicia Robinson contributed to this report.
97	adjudicated	1	EAST NAPLES, Fla. – A Naples elementary school teacher who was suspected of molesting students is now accused of having sex with a child.  Hector Manley, 30, who previously worked at Parkside Elementary, was charged with one count of capital sexual battery on a victim under 12-years-old along with 10 counts of lewd and lascivious molestation on a victim under 12.  Having sex with a child under the age of 12 is considered capital sexual battery.  There have been 13 reported victims.  According to an arrest report, victims said that Manley would repeatedly touch their breasts and vaginas.  Manley would also communicate with victims on Snapchat.  One victim told police that Manley bought her new shoes and bought her McDonald’s on her birthday.  RELATEDTOPICS Raiders game against Buccaneers rescheduled due to positive COVID-19 test Bruce Arians steps down as Tampa Bay Buccaneers head coach  MARCH 30, 2022 Proposed congressional maps being redrawn after DeSantis’ veto Proposed congressional maps being redrawn after DeSantis’ veto  MARCH 30, 2022 Another victim, a boy, told police that Manley told him that he would “kill his mother if anyone found out.”  Manley also coaches a soccer team in Naples.  According to Miguel Niño director of the Mexisoccer League, nothing came up in a background check that was ran for Manley.  “The kids trusted him as much as the parents him,” Niño said. “And that was an error.”  According to the Collier County Sheriff’s Office, Manley turned himself into the Collier County Jail Thursday afternoon.  He has been ordered to not have contact with minors in person or online through social media.  He is also not allowed to be within 50 feet of a school or a daycare.  Manley’s bond has been set at $1.5 million.  An investigation is ongoing.
98	adjudicated	3	Hundreds Rally In Lakeland Demanding That “Families Belong Together”  by James Coulter    Just as a great melting pot once forged the bronze swan statue at Lake Mirror in Lakeland, so too has the Great American Melting Pot forged the great country of America.  This message of inclusivity and diversity was made loud and clear on Saturday evening during a rally in Lakeland as a part of the nationwide Families Belong Together rally.  More than a hundred protesters rallied at Lake Mirror carrying signs announcing solidarity with immigrant families and against the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” policies.  The rally started in front of the swan statue overlooking the Frances Langford Promenade before making its way to Munn Park within Downtown Lakeland.    As protesters marched with their signs, they shouted chants such as “refugees are welcome here” and “immigrants not hate make America great” in English as well as Spanish.  While the protesters mostly received positive feedback through cars honking in solidarity, a few hecklers would shout “go home” or “build the wall” at them.    Even with heavy rain earlier that day with a gray overcast and slight drizzle that evening, nearly a hundred protesters attended the rally that evening to show their support for immigration and opposition towards xenophobia.  “This is certainly exceeding expectations,” said Fidel Arbolaez of Polk County Florida For a Just Future, which helped spearhead the rally.    Attending the rally were many concerned citizens, as well as members of local political advocacy groups and labor unions such as the International Workers of the World (IWW).  Joey Leach, an IWW member, believes that, contrary to popular belief, immigration does not affect the employment or wages of American worker. He also recognizes that many of the issues that his fellow laborers face are also shared by many undocumented workers, which is why he stands in solidarity with them.  “These people coming from other countries are not affecting our labor status in this country, they are not affecting the unemployment numbers at all, [and] they are not here to take American jobs,” he said.  Bob Doyel, candidate for State Senate District 22, previously attended a similar rally earlier that day in Clermont, with him and his fellow protesters braving an hour of rain as they stood along Highway 50.  Having served as a family court judge for more than 16 years, he cares greatly about how immigrant families are being treated at the border.  “Whether it rains or not, the main thing is for us to speak loud and clear that we don’t like the damage that the federal government is doing to children and families,” he said.  This small gathering in Lakeland was one of several hundred rallies hosted nationwide in protest of President Donald Trump’s “zero tolerance” immigration policies.  More than 700 protests were hosted in cities and towns across the country, with the main rally being hosted in Washington D.C. and drawing in thousands of attendees on Saturday.  The Families Belong Together rally, organized in part by the left-wing political advocacy group MoveOn.org, served as a response to the strict immigration policies being implemented by the current administration.    This “zero tolerance” approach towards immigration, as promoted by President Trump and carried out by Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, prosecutes illegal border crossings as criminal offenses, as reported by The Washington Post.  Upon being apprehended at the border, immigrant adults are detained within federal jails while their children are separated from them and taken into custody at shelters operated by U.S. Health & Human Services (HHS).    As such, this “zero tolerance” crackdown has increased the number of parent and child separations at the U.S.-Mexico border. The Washington Post reports: “The number of migrant children held in U.S. government custody without their parents has surged 21 percent in the past month.”  The separation of immigrant children from their parents especially received national attention a month ago following reports of more than 1,500 immigrant children being misplaced by the U.S. Government. Also sparking controversy was the news coverage of Casa Padre, a Texas detention facility converted from a Wal-Mart currently housing more than 1,400 children.  These “zero tolerance” immigration policies have led to a political backlash from left-wing politicians and immigrant rights groups and advocates, sparking numerous protests such as the “Families Belong Together” rally.  Such a backlash has prompted government officials to address these immigration policies and the problems associated with them.  A California judge recently ordered U.S. border authorities to reunite separated children with their families within the next 30 days. Even President Trump himself signed an executive order ending the practice of separating parents and children detained at the border.  Arbolaez hopes that these rallies help spur further change. Considering the sheer numbers that attended this local rally, he believes there is more than enough support nationwide to hopefully prompt such change.    “I am really glad that people are braving the possibility of getting rained on just to stand up and fight for human rights that every human being on this earth deserves,” he said.
99	adjudicated	3	Protesters in cities across the United States have attended rallies for a second consecutive day against US President Donald Trump's immigration policies.  Activists called for a "general strike" on Friday against Trump's month-old administration, a day after thousands of protesters marched and many businesses closed during "A Day Without Immigrants" to highlight the importance of foreign-born naturalized US citizens.  Foreign-born American citizens account for 13 percent of the US population, or more than 40 million people.  One of the groups organizing Friday's strike, Strike4Democracy, said more than 100 public protests were expected around the US. The group urged Americans to stay away from work and contact congressional representatives about the strike.  In New York City, hundreds of protesters attended a rally at Washington Square Park in Manhattan. Crystal Thornebrooke, one of the organizers, said the event was intended to spark discussions about how activists can make progress in fighting Trump's agenda.  "Introducing ourselves to people, hearing people, hearing their concerns with our administration and then build from there - this is the preliminary stages of organization," she said.  Read More:  Thousands protest Trump's immigration policies  Dozens of demonstrators attended a demonstration at the Regent Theater in downtown Los Angeles, California, waving signs and chanting, "fight ignorance, not immigrants."  "I have friends and family members who are undocumented immigrants, and I'm scared for them to be deported," said Priscilla Alburquenque, a 20-year-old college student.   Anti-Trump protester Jonathan Gonzalez demonstrates in front of the J&F Ice Cream store (L) which closed for the day in solidarity with the "Day Without Immigrants" nationwide protests, in Los Angeles, California, on February 16, 2017. (AFP photo) Dozens of people also protested at Daley Plaza in Chicago, Illinois. "The immigration event yesterday was a big event, but not everyone can be at them all," said Joe Balkis, a retired United Parcel Service worker in Chicago.  Trump signed an executive order on January 27, which was put on hold by federal courts, restricting entry from seven Muslim-majority countries.  His controversial immigration policies, along with a series of federal raids last week, have alarmed immigrant rights' groups and sparked a series of protests in cities and airports across the US.  Since his inauguration on January 20, Trump has faced nearly non-stop protests and rallies, including mass demonstration focused on women's rights that drew millions of people around the world on the day after he was sworn in.
100	adjudicated	3	More than 300 people gathered outside the Collier County Courthouse Saturday, to protest the immigration policy enforced by the current administration. Spiritual and religious leaders, community organizers and people passionate about the cause braved the early morning heat.    One of the speakers was Yulie Barbeda. Like some other speakers, she hoped to use her own narrative of navigating the U.S. immigration system to help people empathize with the countless others affected.   Recent Stories from fox4now.com  Your Healthy Family: What is the Blue Zones Project of Southwest Florida? “What I really wanted to get across is...what my family has gone through and why I feel this is so close to me”, she said.    Barbeda told the crowded about how her mother left her and her siblings when she was young. It was four years before they were reunited. Barbeda told Four in Your Corner, that was the reason why she felt so passionately about what was happening to others.   “These people are already through the fabric of our nation and we must accept that.”   The rally came together quickly after organizers saw the images of events at the border between the U.S. and Mexico. The recent presence of law enforcement in Immokalee set the tone for many of the speeches.   "This is empowering for a lot of people that are just learning to raise their voices in opposition", Ellen Hemrick told Fox 4.   Hemrick helped partner with other organizations in the area to bring the rally together. She's hoping the rallies happening in Naples, and across the country will lead to real change.  
101	adjudicated	1	ORLANDO, Fla. — Hundreds have gathered at Orlando's City Hall to protest President Trump's immigration policies, including the separation of immigrant children from their families.
102	adjudicated	3	NEW YORK/LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - A second consecutive day of protests against U.S. President Donald Trump’s month-old administration appeared to lose momentum on Friday, with rallies in Chicago, Los Angeles and New York attracting small yet enthusiastic crowds.   Demonstrators march during the "Day Without Immigrants" protest in Chicago, Illinois, February 16, 2017. REUTERS/Theopolis Waters Activists had called for a “general strike” a day after thousands of immigrants across the United States stayed home from work and school during “A Day Without Immigrants” to highlight the contributions of foreign-born workers to the American economy.  Strike4Democracy, one of the groups organizing Friday’s strike, said more than 100 public protests were expected around the country.  In New York, more than 16,000 people responded to a Facebook page set up for a rally at Washington Square Park in Manhattan, but fewer than 200 protesters were at the park an hour after the posted start time.  Crystal Thornebrooke, one of the organizers, said the event was intended to spark discussions about how activists can make progress in fighting Trump’s agenda.  “Introducing ourselves to people, hearing people, hearing their concerns with our administration and then build from there - this is the preliminary stages of organization,” she said.  In downtown Los Angeles, a rally at the Regent Theater drew about 60 demonstrators, waving signs and chanting, “Fight ignorance, not immigrants.”  “I have friends and family members who are undocumented immigrants, and I’m scared for them to be deported,” said Priscilla Alburquenque, a 20-year-old college student.  Some protesters said Thursday’s walkout may have sapped some of the energy for Friday’s action.  “The immigration event yesterday was a big event, but not everyone can be at them all,” said Joe Balkis, a retired United Parcel Service worker who was one of approximately 75 protesters at Daley Plaza in Chicago.  Trump has vowed to crack down on illegal immigration and signed an executive order, which was put on hold by federal courts, restricting entry from seven Muslim-majority countries. Those policies, along with a series of federal raids last week, have alarmed immigrant rights’ groups.  Strike4Democracy urged Americans to stay away from work, donate their lunch money to a worthy cause and contact congressional representatives about the strike.  Since his Jan. 20 inauguration, Trump has faced a steady stream of protests and marches, highlighted by mass rallies focused on women’s rights that drew millions of people around the globe on the day after he was sworn in.
103	adjudicated	1	DOWNTOWN LOS ANGELES (KABC) -- Thousands of activists gathered at Pershing Square in protest of the recent raids by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.  Protestors said that they will continue their marches until President Donald Trump puts a stop to his agenda.  For many like Lucy Gomez, the matter is personal.   EMBED <>MORE VIDEOS  Thousands of people were marching in protest in Los Angeles as Donald Trump held a campaign rally in Florida on Saturday, Feb. 18, 2017.    "I was an immigrant. I'm not a criminal," Gomez said. "I'm educated. I actually have a bachelor's degree. I pay my taxes and I can prove them."  The protestors marched through downtown Los Angeles to reach City Hall.  "He stated how Mexicans are criminals and rapists," said Dolores Villa, another protester at the march. "I came to the states when I was 6, pursuing the American dream. My mother is a hard-working maid to this day."  Along the way, protesters were greeted by a small group of Donald Trump supporters.  "People need to come legally into this country," said Arthur Schaper with Beach Cities Republicans. "Donald Trump ran on a platform of secure borders and showing Americans are first and making sure that we have jobs back in this country. He's already following through on that."  Despite several heated arguments, police managed to keep both sides apart.  At City Hall, the protestors held a rally to send a message to politicians.  "I'm hoping that Mayor Garcetti (will) stop being such a coward and flip-flopping on saying we're a sanctuary city," said Lydia Ponce, an organizer for the event. "We should be a sanctuary country."
104	adjudicated	2	In conjunction with a nationwide day of such assemblies, more than 600 people gathered for a vigil in Five Points Park to protest the Trump administration’s zero-tolerance approach to immigration and separation of families detained at the U.S./Mexico border.  “Tonight in Sarasota, we joined with over 700 nationwide rallies and protests demanding families be reunited now!” said organizer Dianne Perry of Action Together Suncoast Indivisible. “We value families and people,” she added.  Perry, who after reviewing photos later said she thought the crowd might have been closer to 1,000 strong, also praised the local candidates for office who attended and spoke at the event, calling them “courageous.”
105	adjudicated	1	The Democrats of Hemet-San Jacinto held a rally Saturday to show solidarity with immigrants and undocumented residents, according to organizers. Marchers began at the Hemet Democratic Headquarters on Florida Avenue and walked to City Hall before speakers addressed the crowd.  The group was protesting the immigration stance of the Trump administration, including a recent ban on immigrants from certain countries. That executive order has been put on hold by federal courts.
106	adjudicated	4	DENVER — Protesters marched from Civic Center Park to First Unitarian Church on Saturday to show their support for a woman who sought sanctuary inside the church to avoid being deported.  Several hundred people gathered for the rally. Organizer Queen Phoenix said the march was all-inclusive with protesters rallying for everything from immigrants’ rights to the constitution.  “There are so many different venues that are hurting us and offending so many different groups of people,” said Phoenix.  Jeanette Vizguerra is living in the country illegally. She sought sanctuary in First Unitarian Church to avoid being deported and separated from her four children.  She came to the U.S. 20 years ago with her husband and daughter. Several years ago, she was pulled over during a traffic stop and police found a job application with a made-up Social Security number on it.  Later, Vizguerra traveled back to Mexico to spend time with her dying mother and was detained by U.S. Border Patrol agents as she crossed the border illegally.  Since then, her attorney said she has been a high priority for immigration authorities.  Vizguerra addressed the crowd outside the church Saturday. She said the image of all the people standing on the front steps of the church will stay in her memory forever.  “It’s very emotional, see very much people coming, and express your support, your love, it’s very emotional,” Vizaguerra said.  “As soon as I embraced her, she trembled. She was crying, she was so touched by how many people showed up and how many people cared about her,” Phoenix said.  “She has worked every day she has come here. She had two jobs at the time when she got stopped and she actually belongs here. Our country isn’t going to be anywhere near what it should be without our immigrants,” protester Claudia Vick said.  Other protest participants showed up to show their support for the Constitution. Mohamed Mouaddine brought his two children because he believes it’s important for them to experience these rallies.  “I grew up in a country that does not have the freedom.  You need to stand up for your freedom because it’s something you don’t know the price of, unless you don’t have it,” Mouaddine said.  “I came here to stand for my country and stand for my rights and stand for the constitution,” 7-year-old Heba Mouaddine said.  “I would like to thank everyone that came here to defend the constitution and defend their Muslim brothers and sisters,” Mouaddine’s son Otman said. “I am really proud of that and touched.”  “I feel that America is supposed to be a nation that is together and we’re not supposed to be divided and we’re all supposed to stand together and I think that’s what we did here today,” Sarah Bendahmane said.  Organizers want to plan a protest each week. Their next scheduled event will take place Monday.
107	adjudicated	4	HOLLYWOOD — Even as the heat index hit 100 Saturday, more than a thousand South Floridians took to the streets in Boca Raton, Hollywood, Miami and West Palm Beach to keep the heat on presidential policy that has separated some 2,000 migrant children from their parents.  They were part of the same movement that galvanized 700 nationwide demonstrations, organized by a collection of grass-roots groups including the Move On and Families Belong Together, organizations to bring about change in immigration policy. The sight of traumatized children united them.  “Our country was founded out of a concern for decency,” said Laura Samuels, who drove from Delray Beach to attend the protest in Hollywood, where several hundred marched outside the Diplomat Beach Resort, where state Democrats were holding their annual June conference. “There is no basic, fundamental decency to separating families of immigrants.”  After rallying with some words from notables such as U.S. Rep. Lois Frankel, D-West Palm Beach, and West Palm Beach Mayor Jeri Muoio, about 550 people marched from the intersection of Southern Boulevard and South Flagler Drive in West Palm Beach, to the gates of Mar-a-Lago, estimated Jim Haug, 51, a Palm Beach Gardens editor, who was among the protesters.  ADVERTISEMENT  About 250 protesters were counted in downtown Boca Raton. And social media feeds showed hundreds of protesters gathering at Freedom Tower in Miami. Police shut down traffic on Biscayne Boulevard to accommodate the march.  [Popular on SunSentinel.com] Now open: Akira Back and Rossano’s Pizza in Delray Beach, Cork & Barrel Wine Bar and Tapas in Tamarac » Hollywood Police had to hold back the growing crowd that spilled off the sidewalk onto South Ocean Drive across from the Diplomat. Sporadic rain did not dampen the demonstrators’ resolve.  Community members protest outside the Diplomat Beach Resort in Hollywood Community members protest outside the Diplomat Beach Resort in Hollywood Protesters congregate in front of the Diplomat Beach Resort in Hollywood to rally against President Trump's "zero-tolerance" immigration policy on Saturday June 30, 2018. (Yutao Chen / South Florida Sun Sentinel)  1 / 15 Some who showed up to the rally were seasoned anti-Trump demonstrators, others were new to immigration activism. Some parents said they feel compelled to show up after gut-wrenching accounts of children forcibly taken from their families as they crossed the border illegally.  In West Palm Beach, Haug said the past few weeks have been a nonstop stream of reasons to protest against the current administration. To the idea of children being separated from their parents, “I had a visceral reaction,” Haug said. “I just can’t imagine separating kids from their parents at the border after a harrowing trip through Mexico.”  Rucsandra Vitere, 23, is an Orlando area school teacher who joined the Hollywood demonstrators in support of some of her students who came from trouble-spots in Venezuela, Guatemala, and especially Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria, she said.
108	adjudicated	1	An estimated crowd of several thousand people marched peacefully Saturday morning in Atlanta as part of a national effort to spotlight U.S. immigration policies that are separating children from their parents.  The Families Belong Together event brought a large crowd together after a roughly half-mile procession that started at the Atlanta Detention Center and ended at the Richard B. Russell Federal Building.
109	adjudicated	3	Calling for Frederick to become a sanctuary city and criticizing many of the policies of President Donald Trump, several hundred people gathered downtown on Saturday to show support for the city’s immigrant community.  The march was to increase awareness of how diverse Frederick’s population is, and to show what an important part of the community immigrants are, said Ben MacShane, one of the organizers.  The march was also organized by Stand Up for Racial Justice, a national network of groups and individuals that recently began a chapter in Frederick.  Recent attacks on immigrants aren’t just a problem in other parts of the country, MacShane said.  There are a lot of immigrants who need to see that people stand on their behalf, and the rally was a great opportunity to show them that people care, said the Rev. Eliezer Valentin-Castanon, who spoke Saturday.  Valentin-Castanon is a pastor at Trinity United Methodist, but said he was speaking on his own behalf rather than for the church.  Frederick Alderman Michael O’Connor spoke about how his grandparents came to America from Ireland in search of opportunity and a better life.  He urged the crowd to use the energy on display Saturday and translate it into a commitment to the country’s ideals, and make sure that Frederick remains a city that values justice and compassion.  “Every generation has its moment of conscience. And this is ours,” O’Connor said.  Several speakers called for Frederick to become a sanctuary city, a municipality that doesn’t prosecute residents based on their immigration status, and typically provides services to residents regardless of their immigration status.  Many people in the crowd carried signs, many calling for tolerance and opposing strict measures of immigration enforcement they said have been carried out since Trump took office in January.  Trump made stricter enforcement of the country’s immigration laws one of the cornerstones of his campaign for the White House and his time as president.  Saturday’s rally began at the corner of Patrick and Market streets in downtown Frederick, and moved to the amphitheater in Carroll Creek Linear Park.  Sergeant Jay Brown of the Frederick Police Department, who supervised the department’s handling of the event, said it went smoothly and without problems.  Melanie Gettier of Frederick said she came out to show support for her “fellow human beings.”  Gettier said she and her husband moved to Frederick 24 years ago because they were attracted to the city’s friendly and welcoming feel.  Lily Chalkley, a sophomore at Frederick High School, said she came with some friends because she thought it was important to show support for the immigrant community.  She said she likes the mix of cultures at her school, where you can walk through the halls and hear several languages being spoken.  Chalkley said she didn’t think her school experience would be the same without that diversity.
110	adjudicated	3	MINNEAPOLIS (WCCO) — Hundreds of people marched to show solidarity for immigrants and refugees Saturday.  The rally started at Powderhorn Park in Minneapolis, then marchers walked down Lake Street.  READ MORE: 'Let's Finish Strong': Salvation Army Hopes To Meet Goal Of 2 Million Pounds Of Food Donations Organizers say they want to stand with those affected by the increasing military presence at the U.S.-Mexico border.  They also want to support those affected by President Donald Trump’s travel ban, which is currently on hold.  READ MORE: Minnesota Native Shares How He Escaped War-Torn Ukraine One first-generation American we spoke with said she needed to be there.  “I have family still in Eritrea where they have tried to escape. Many of my cousins have died in that process or have been jailed,” protester Rim Woldeslassie said. “I understand in a country like that they’re not able to protest like we are today. So I am happy that I am able to do that here and not be persecuted because of it.”  MORE NEWS: Minneapolis Schools Superintendent Ed Graff To Leave District Minneapolis police estimate about 800 people marched Saturday.
111	adjudicated	4	SAVANNAH, GA (WTOC) - In line with the immigration protests nationwide, protesters in Savannah descended on Johnson Square on Saturday afternoon to have their voices heard.  After speakers rallied the crowd together, hundreds of protesters marched to city hall carrying signs and chanting their frustrations.  "I couldn't imagine," said Emily Aluizo. "I have a three-year-old son so if someone were to rip away my child, I don't know how I would feel. So that's why we're here. That's the most important part, to bring those children back to their families."  The protest was peaceful.
112	adjudicated	3	On the heels of nationwide protests, several hundred people gathered Sunday outside the Oregon State Capitol in support and solidarity of immigration and immigration rights.  Forecasts of cold downpours didn't deter the crowd, which event organizers estimated to be more than 1,000 people.  Winds whipped the signs of protesters crowded on the Capitol Mall as Yesica Navarro spoke about growing up as an immigrant. Her family came to the United States when she was a child, looking for a better life and more opportunities. Learning a new culture and language was difficult for many others like her.  "Against all odds, we persisted, not just for ourselves but for our families," she said. "We love this country, and we want to be accepted. This is our home."   The crowd cheered and clapped as cars driving along State Street honked. One man appeared to be heckling protesters but couldn't be heard over the din of the crowd.  Donna and Mark Maynard of Salem along with their dog Maiah, donned pink, knitted, cat-eared hats and held a sign with the phrase "We the people are greater than fear."  They come from a family of immigrants, Mark said. Besides voting and volunteering to help refugees, the pair has shied way from political activism in the past. But now, they said want to speak up for immigrants' and women's rights.   "This year is different," Donna said. "It feels like we have to."  Micki Randall of Silverton brought her three children to the rally. The family held posters depicting a Lego figurine proclaiming: "Immigrants are awesome!"  She said they attended to support the idea that "we should love our neighbors."  The event, part of the Immigrants' March Presidents Day 2017, was a grassroots efforts. A few people wanting to stand up for immigrants' rights started organizing the gathering just over three weeks ago, said Maya Lopez  of Portland.  Hundreds gathered at an immigration rights rally in front of the Capitol on Sunday, Feb. 19, 2017, in Salem, Ore. Originally a march had been planned, but organizers were unable to get a permit after more than 1,500 people RSVP'd to the event. A social media discussion with friends turned into a plan for the march which soon garnered more than 1,500 RSVPs on Facebook. The feedback was so immense, organizers decided to hold a rally in place of a march.  "We have such a large group, we couldn't get a permit," Lopez said.  The rally came one day after thousands gathered in downtown Los Angeles in opposition of immigration enforcement raids. On Thursday, stores closed, students stayed home from school and people protested across the nation as part of A Day Without Immigrants.  Lopez led the crowd in alternating chants of "Adelante!" and "Forward!"  "Together we are many, we are powerful and we are not going away," she said.   Several speakers ranging from Salem-based Syrian immigrant Moayad Adham to Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) participant Leonardo Reyes .  "To be honest with you, it's scary to stand up here and acknowledge that I am undocumented," Reyes said. "This has been my home since I was 10 years old."  In 2012, DACA helped him get a driver's license and work permit. It opened up a whole world of opportunities him and other Dreamers.  With immigration enforcement raids and DACA at risk, many are at risk of being forced back into the shadows of society and forgotten, he said.  "You have the power to make a difference," he told the crowd. "We need you to be our voices in the political world."  Maya Lopez, one of the event's organizers, claps as DACA recipient Leo Reyes speaks about his experience as an immigrant at a rally in front of the Capitol on Sunday, Feb. 19, 2017, in Salem, Ore. DACA, the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, provides limited immigration benefits but no direct path to lawful permanent residence or citizenship. Before he became a teacher and a prosecutor, speaker Nick Tran was a refugee, airlifted from Vietnam 40 years ago. He pointed to the golden pioneer statue towering above the crowd. The statue was sculpted by an immigrant, he said.  "Within our nation's history, the list of immigrants and refugees was long and distinguished," Tran added.  Salem City Council member Cara Kaser encouraged the crowd to continue to fight to make sure everyone has a voice. Hold elected officials accountable for their actions or even run for office, she said.   "Immigrants are our future," she said. "Immigrants are our neighbors, they're our friends, they're our co-workers and they're our family... We don't need a ban on immigrants. We need to offer a hand in support. We don't need a wall. We need bridges."
113	adjudicated	4	WASHINGTON (AP) - They wore white. They shook their fists in the air. They carried signs reading: "No more children in cages," and "What's next? Concentration Camps?" In major cities and tiny towns, hundreds of thousands of marchers gathered Saturday across America, moved by accounts of children separated from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border, in the latest act of mass resistance against President Donald Trump's immigration policies. ADVERTISING  Protesters flooded more than 700 marches, from immigrant-friendly cities like New York and Los Angeles to conservative Appalachia and Wyoming. They gathered on the front lawn of a Border Patrol station in McAllen, Texas, near a detention center where migrant children were being held in cages, and on a street corner near Trump's golf resort at Bedminster, New Jersey, where the president is spending the weekend. Trump has backed away from family separations amid bipartisan and international uproar. His "zero tolerance policy" led officials to take more than 2,000 children from their parents as they tried to enter the country illegally, most of them fleeing violence, persecution or economic collapse in their home countries.  Those marching Saturday demanded the government quickly reunite the families that were already divided. A Brazilian mother separated from her 10-year-old son more than a month ago approached the microphone at the Boston rally. "We came to the United States seeking help, and we never imagined that this could happen. So I beg everyone, please release these children, give my son back to me," she said through an interpreter, weeping. "Please fight and continue fighting, because we will win," she said. The crowd erupted. In Washington, D.C., an estimated 30,000 marchers gathered in Lafayette Park across from the White House in what was expected to be the largest protest of the day, stretching for hours under a searing sun. Firefighters at one point misted the crowd to help people cool off. Lin-Manuel Miranda, creator of the musical "Hamilton," sang a lullaby dedicated to parents unable to sing to their children. Singer-songwriter Alicia Keys read a letter written by a woman whose child had been taken away from her at the border.  "It's upsetting. Families being separated, children in cages," said Emilia Ramos, a cleaner in the district, fighting tears at the rally. "Seeing everyone together for this cause, it's emotional." Around her, thousands waved signs: "I care," some read, referencing a jacket that first lady Melania Trump wore when traveling to visit child migrants. The back of her jacket said, "I really don't care, do U?" and it became a rallying cry for protesters Saturday. "I care!! Do you?" read Joan Culwell's T-shirt as she joined a rally in Denver. "We care!" marchers shouted outside Dallas City Hall. Organizer Michelle Wentz says opposition to the Trump administration's "barbaric and inhumane" policy has seemed to transcend political lines. "This is the issue crossing the line for a lot of people," said Robin Jackson, 51, of Los Angeles, who protested with thousands carrying flags, signs and babies. Singer John Legend serenaded the crowd and Democratic politicians who have clashed with Trump had strong words for the president, including U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters who called for his impeachment.  The president took to Twitter amid the protests, first to show his support for Immigration and Customs Enforcement as some Democrats called for major changes to the agency. Tweeting Saturday from New Jersey, Trump urged ICE agents to "not worry or lose your spirit" and wrote that "the radical left Dems want you out. Next it will be all police." He later tweeted that he never pushed House Republicans to vote for immigration overhaul measures that failed last week, contradicting a post three days ago in which he urged GOP congressional members to pass them. In Trump's hometown of New York City, another massive crowd poured across the Brooklyn Bridge in sweltering 90-degree heat, some carrying their children on their shoulders, chanting, "Shame!" Drivers honked their horns in support. "It's important for this administration to know that these policies that rip apart families - that treat people as less than human, like they're vermin - are not the way of God, they are not the law of love," said the Rev. Julie Hoplamazian, an Episcopal priest marching in Brooklyn. Though seasoned anti-Trump demonstrators packed the rallies, others were new to activism, including parents who said they felt compelled to act after heart-wrenching accounts of families who were torn apart.  Marchers took to city parks and downtown squares from Maine to Florida to Oregon; in Alaska, Hawaii and Puerto Rico; on the international bridge between El Paso, Texas, and Juarez, Mexico; even in Antler, North Dakota, population 27. People braved the heat in Chicago and Atlanta to march. Some of the demonstrations were boisterous, others were quiet. Five people were arrested outside an ICE office in Dallas for blocking a road. At least one arrest was made in Columbus, Ohio, when protesters obstructed a downtown street. Light-rail service temporarily shut down in Minneapolis as thousands of demonstrators got in the way of the tracks. A rally in Portland, Maine, grew so large that police had to shut down part of a major street. But in Dodge City, Kansas, a 100-person rally led by a Catholic church felt more like a mass than a protest. In rural Marshalltown, Iowa, about 125 people gathered for a march organized by Steve Adelmund, a father of two who was inspired after turning on the news on Father's Day and seeing children being separated from their families and held in cages. "It hit me in the heart. I cried," he said.  "If we can't come together under the idea of 'Kids shouldn't be taken from their parents,' where are we?" he asked. "We have to speak out now while we can, before we can't." Drum beats and horns sounded as thousands of protesters took to the streets of San Francisco. "We came here to let the president know that this is not acceptable," said San Francisco resident Barry Hooper, who attended with his wife and two daughters. His 7-year-old daughter Liliana clutched a sign she made, saying, "Stop the separation." Three thousand miles away in Washington, protesters ended their march at the white-columned Justice Department. They stacked their protest signs, written in English and Spanish, against its grand wooden doors. "Fight for families," one sign demanded. ___  Associated Press reporters Susan Montoya Bryan in Albuquerque, New Mexico; Emily Schmall in McAllen, Texas; David Warren and Ryan Tarinelli in Dallas; Paul Elias in San Francisco; David Sharp in Portland, Maine; Martha Irvine in Chicago; Sarah Betancourt in Boston; Damian Dovarganes in Los Angeles; Rick Callahan in Indianapolis; Bob Lentz and Ron Todt in Philadelphia, Claire Galofaro in Louisville, Kentucky, and Julie Walker and Michael Sisak in New York City contributed to this report.
114	adjudicated	4	IDAHO FALLS — Crowds took to the streets of US cities Saturday to demand “Families Belong Together” nearly two months after the Trump administration implemented its “zero tolerance” policy toward undocumented immigrants.  Around two dozen marchers met at the Bonneville County Courthouse at 9 a.m. and walked through parts of downtown Idaho Falls holding signs.  immigration protest  The main rally is taking place in Lafayette Square in Washington, but hundreds of marches, protests and rallies were underway across the country to call for the immediate reunification of migrant families and an end to family detentions and separations.  According to organizers, protesters have three demands:  • They want separated migrant families to be reunited immediately. • They want the government to end family detentions. • And they want the Trump administration to end its zero tolerance policy.  Chants of “Shame!” rose up from crowds in both New York and Washington as the protests got underway, while demonstrators in Atlanta carried cages with baby dolls inside.  Attendees carried signs demanding a change to the administration’s policy, or celebrating the contributions that immigrants make to the country.  “We are all immigrants,” one said.  “Seeking safety is not a crime,” another said.  “Let our children dream. Let them go!” a sign in Washington said.  And there were plenty of shirts declaring, “I really do care, do u?” — a dig at the jacket first lady Melania Trump wore while departing for a trip to the southwest border last week.  “I’m outraged that families are being separated,” said Margaret Stokes, 54, a Virginia teacher protesting in the nation’s capital. She carried a sign that asked, “Where are the children?”  “Separating families, especially young children, without a plan to reunite them is abhorrent,” Stokes said. “This is not America.  “We need to let the administration know that we will not become numb to these atrocities.”  Saturday’s protests are just the latest. On Thursday, more than 1,000 female activists marched through Washington and ended up in a Senate office building to protest the White House’s policy.  According to US Capitol Police, 575 of them were arrested.
115	adjudicated	1	ISSAQUAH, Wash. -- Hundreds of protesters met outside Rep. Dave Reichert's office Thursday in Issaquah, closing a street and calling on the Republican representative to support immigrant rights, Obamacare and participate in town hall meetings.  Demonstrators blocked SE 56th Street near East Lake Sammamish around 12:20 p.m.      The protest was organized by the progressive activist organization Fuse Washington. The group called on protesters to "demand protection for all families" outside of Reichert's office, opposing his effort to "appeal the Affordable Care Act, de-fund Planned Parenthood and institute a Muslim ban that tears families apart."  Reichert has faced growing criticism in recent days over his policy of not holding public town halls, saying he decided to stop them for safety concerns and because he found them to be counter productive.  "Come on out, Dave," protesters chanted. "We won't hurt you."
116	adjudicated	4	MERIDIAN, Idaho (KBOI) — Protesters across the country rallied against the federal government's policies surrounding illegal immigrants and accounts of children separated from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border.  Hundreds of people in the Treasure Valley turned out for the 'Families Belong Together' rally. Many were at the Statehouse but another smaller group in Meridian made sure their voices were heard.  On the corner of Main Street and Franklin they stood in resistance of President Trump's immigration policies. Their signs and chants all showing support for the immigrant families who are being separated at the border.  Organizers say they considered marching to Meridian City Hall but they wanted to make sure they were seen and heard.   They had three demands reunite families now, end family detention and end 'zero humanity.'  "It's called zero tolerance but it's really zero humanity," said Meridian event organizer Bret Bockelman.  "When I first heard the news about kids being separated it made me cry, i was so upset because they're little. What can they do? They're all by themselves they're going to get hurt. They could get sad. They're going to go into deep depression. It's not right. It should be fixed soon" said protester Alicia Frias.  "This one (her daughter) is four years old and I asked her what she wanted to say so she made her own sign which is 'Give the babies back. That's not okay.' And this one (her younger daughter) is not quite old enough to articulate that well but the idea that children younger than my girls are having to represent themselves in immigration court is just completely absurd to me." said protester Tricia Klein.  They say it's important to stand up and show that they care because these people's live and families are important. Organizers say they will continue spreading this message because they say what is happening at the u-s mexico border needs to end.
117	adjudicated	4	POCATELLO — Area activists took to the streets Saturday to protest current immigration policies in the United States and the separation of migrant families at the U.S. border.  The Trump administration has signed an executive order to end child separation at the border, and a federal judge gave them 30 days as of Wednesday to reunite the families. But it’s still estimated that approximately 2,000 children are separated from their parents.  This protest in Pocatello was one of hundreds across the United States calling on the administration to reunite families that have been split up.   RELATED NEWS: - Cuomo talks run for governor and cancel culture volume_off volume_up     Auto (225p) 225p 360p Subtitles Off Subtitles EN  RELATED NEWS: - Cuomo talks run for governor and cancel culture Former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo is dangling the possibility he may run for his former job just six months after he resigned amid sexual harassment allegations. (March 17) - Source: ASSOCIATED PRESS  Cuomo talks run for governor and cancel culture General news | 2:08  Donations for Ukraine pour into Michigan warehouse General news | 1:06  Breaking Down Moderna Seeking COVID Vaccine Approval for Kids Under 6 Technology | 4:37  US astronaut ends spaceflight in Russian capsule General news | 1:05  Virginia Man Travels To Poland To Help Ukrainian Refugees General news | 2:34  No bail for Oregon homeless camp crash suspect General news | 0:43  AP Explains: Bail reform at issue in New York General news | 1:55  Ukrainian Americans prepare for 100,000 refugees General news | 2:16  Amazon gears up for dual union election results General news | 0:38  Palestinian PM Details Food Supply Woes From Russia-Ukraine Crisis Business | 3:08 Kristin Dahlquist, who organized the Pocatello march, estimated that they had more than 300 people participate and said that’s just what she expected and, “maybe even a little bit more.”  The protesters began marching at 10 a.m. on the sidewalks from Caldwell Park, past the Bannock County Courthouse, into Old Town Pocatello and back down to the park where they started. People from many different walks of life were among the marchers.  Glenda Funk, a teacher at Highland High School, said she felt that many people simplified the complex issue of immigration and don’t look into all the facts before forming their opinion.  “It’s a complicated issue that people simplify,” Funk said.  Funk said that she believed people who cross the southern border are escaping poor situations and it’s too difficult for them to come to the United States the legal way because it’s such a long process.  “The people who are crossing at the southern border are fleeing. They’re refugees. They’re comparable to what’s going on in Syria,” Funk said.  Kath Olsen, a retired pediatric nurse, said that being separated from your parents can cause trauma later in life.  “I see the life-long trauma that can result in being separated from your parents,” Olsen said. “I’m really sad that our country would take a position that in order to control people they would use children as a pawn.”   She added, “I’m here to protest that, or at least let people and our government know that there’s a lot of people that don’t believe in the current policies.”  Arijan Wellard, a local resident, echoed Olsen in saying that he wanted to speak up and let people know his discontent with the current system.  “It’s our responsibility to speak out against that because if something terrible happens, I want the people involved to know that there were people who stood up for them,” Wellard said.  Wellard, the son of an immigrant, spoke to the importance of immigration in the United States.  “If it weren’t for immigration I wouldn’t be here,” Wellard said.  And as the march continued, Hannah Luna pushed her daughter in a stroller along with the marchers and couldn’t imagine being separated from her the way other families have been split up.  “I just wanted to make sure that we who aren’t suffering that right now speak out and say that what’s happening isn’t OK,” Luna said.  She continued, “And I hope that if I was separated from my child, others would be out saying that wasn’t OK too.”  Dahlquist promised not to rest until the children who have been separated are reunited with their families and said, “we’re going to tell the current administration that we’re against their zero-tolerance policy and we’re not going to quit until over 2,000 kids are reunited with their parents.”
118	adjudicated	3	Rally held for Highland Park dad detained by ICE while dropping kids off at school By Jade Hernandez Monday, March 6, 2017  EMBED <>MORE VIDEOS  A rally was held in downtown Los Angeles for Romulo Avelica-Gonzalez, an undocumented immigrant who was detained by ICE agents while dropping his girls off at school in Highland Park.  DOWNTOWN LOS ANGELES (KABC) -- About 75 people gathered in Pershing Square on Monday to show their support for an undocumented immigrant who was detained by agents with the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement while dropping his children off at school.  Romulo Avelica-Gonzalez, 48, was detained by ICE agents Tuesday while dropping his daughters off at school in Highland Park.  His arrest was captured on video by his 13-year-old daughter, Fatima Avelica, who could be heard sobbing as agents took her father away.   EMBED <>MORE VIDEOS  While being dropped off at school with her sisters, 13-year-old Fatima Avelica recorded her undocumented father being picked up by agents with the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.   While Fatima Avelica was too distraught to speak during the rally, one of Romulo Avelica-Gonzalez's other daughters spoke to the crowd.  "My dad is very strong and that's why we are here. To be strong for him, and as a community we can do big things," she said.  The father, who the family's attorney said has paid taxes in the U.S. for 25 years, remains at a detention facility outside of Los Angeles.  "I was in grade school when he arrived in this country. He's paid his taxes, and he and his family have raised four beautiful U.S. citizen daughters. (They're) strong, independent women who are making the best of their community and rising to leadership levels," attorney Peter Greyshock said.  MORE: Mayor Garcetti speaks out about ICE arrest of Highland Park father  Those gathered on Monday urged ICE agents to use their discretion to keep a father with his family in the United States.  An emergency immigration town hall meeting was held in South Los Angeles later in the evening. Rep. Karen Bass said the video is one example of why fear is spreading in the U.S.  "The way the guidelines read - they are so general - that any jurisdiction could interpret it the way they want, and they can essentially say, 'if you're here illegally, you are a criminal,'" she said.  Romulo Avelica-Gonzalez's legal team has applied for a U-visa, which would keep him in the U.S. under special circumstances. His attorney said the approval process could take up to four years.  A meeting will be held Thursday to inform South L.A. residents about their rights should they face any deportation issues.
119	adjudicated	4	Farmworkers, physicians and clergy members descended Tuesday on Oxnard City Hall, quickly filling up the City Council chambers and two overflow rooms as they called for a declaration of a "safe city" in the face of federal plans to step up enforcement of immigration laws.  Hundreds gathered outside Oxnard City Hall on Tuesday calling for the council to pass a safe city resolution. Nearly 300 people rallied outside, holding signs that read "Oxnard sanctuary city" and "Resist hate" as evening traffic passed on Third Street, some cars honking in support. It was the strongest push yet calling on the City Council to make a declaration of a safe city.  Organizers of the rally are pushing "safe city" over "sanctuary city" status for political reasons. President Donald Trump has threatened to remove federal funding from so-called sanctuary cities, a stance that many experts say has little merit.   "Sanctuary cities have generated so much fire," said Lucas Zucker, of Central Coast Alliance United for a Sustainable Economy, or CAUSE, one of about eight advocacy groups focused on this issue.  An hour before the City Council meeting, organizers rallied participants to sign a petition supporting a status as a safe city.  Jorge Martinez gave out about 40 self-designed T-shirts that read "Raza unidos sin miedo," which is Spanish for "Our people united without fear." Martinez, who entered the country without legal permission, said he made the shirts to show solidarity with farmworkers.  "We're all here to work," Martinez said. "If we don't help them, the whole Ventura County economy can go down. Who's going to pick the fruits?"  When the council meeting convened, the room wasn't large enough to accommodate the crowd, so an overflow room across the street was opened. That room on B Street quickly filled up and a second overflow room was opened at the library.  About 40 people spoke in favor of a status as a safe city and many talked about their fears of raids and mass deportations. One speaker opposed.  George Miller, publisher of Citizens Journal, said recent calls for a safe city are part of an "orchestrated campaign." Miller said residents who do not commit crimes won't be targeted.  "This is scare mongering," he told the council.  Xochitl Lopez holds a sign while listening to her father address the Oxnard City Council about a proposed safe city resolution. Mayor Tim Flynn laid out the ground rules at the start of the public-comment period of the council meeting. There would be no applause, no boos and no hissing. Each speaker was allotted one minute.  A minister told the council his faith commands him to love and welcome immigrants. A sixth-grade boy said students aren't going to school because families are scared that teachers will communicate with federal immigration officials. Port Hueneme Councilman Jim Hensley said he thinks the whole county should be declared safe.   Immigration attorney Vanessa Frank said she believes cities will be able to fight any federal government threats over sanctuary city status.  "We have the law on our side. We have morals on our side. We have the community on our side," she said.  Proponents want the council to consider at its next meeting a resolution that would prohibit all city departments from using funds and resources to enforce federal immigration laws. They would like other cities to declare safe city status, too, but they're starting their efforts with Oxnard, the city with the county's largest immigrant population.   According to CAUSE, Oxnard has an estimated 35,000 people who entered this country without legal permission. That's one in six Oxnard residents.  Related content:  Oxnard City Council mixed on sanctuary status Local schools declare themselves safe spaces for students Flynn said the city is, in essence, a safe city because local police have already made the vow not to enforce federal laws.   Police Chief Scott Whitney said his department will not go knocking on doors and stopping people on the street asking about immigration status.  "We're not in the business of immigration enforcement; that doesn't benefit public safety. That's not going to make our city safer," Whitney said. "Our residents should not be afraid of the Oxnard Police Department or any other police departments in the city."   By the time council members addressed the issue, most of the rally participants had left. City leaders did not say whether such a resolution would be on a future agenda.  Councilman Bert Perello said that with limited funds, he wouldn't want to get into any litigation with the federal government.  "I don't believe that makes me a racist," Perello said.  Councilwoman Carmen Ramirez thanked members of the community for speaking and then gave an impassioned speech condemning the hate crimes across the country on Jewish centers and various immigrant groups.  "We are all from immigrant families unless you're Native American," Ramirez said. "And we have to try to understand the terror going through our community. ... If you don't recognize that or empathize, I feel sorry for you."  Ramirez said her husband's family fled the Nazis, and at that time, there were people who underestimated the anti-Semitic rhetoric.  "This is a time not to be neutral, to speak up for our families," she said. "I feel very strongly about that."
120	adjudicated	3	Crowds gathered in hundreds of separate rallies across the nation to protest the policy toward undocumented immigrations implemented by the Trump administration nearly two months ago, which led to thousands of children being separated from their parents.   Protesters gathered on both sides of First Ave. on Saturday. Photo by Ben Olson.  While the main rally took place in Washington, D.C., over 125 protestors gathered on both sides of First Avenue outside the Bonner County courthouse in Sandpoint. The peaceful protestors held signs and waved American flags, cheering at the passing motorists honking their support.  Signs read “Keep families together,” and “Never again is now.” One lady held a jacket on a stick with the words, “Yes I care” written on the back. Two women held a large American flag with the words, “In our America, all people are equal, love wins, black lives matter, immigrants & refugees are welcome, disabilities are respected, women are in charge of their bodies, people & planet are valued over profit, diversity is celebrated.”   A woman holding a sign that reads, “Yes I care.” Photo by Ben Olson.  A common refrain in the crowd was a call to reunite separated migrant families and the end of the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” policy.  Dave Mulliner from Sandpoint said he attended the rally because “We don’t believe parents and children – anyone’s children – should be separated from one another. We need to put kids back with their parents.”  Alirene Mulliner said, “Let immigrants follow natural law. We don’t need to impose these draconian measures.”  Barbara Russell of Bonners Ferry said she attended the rally because separating children from their parents is “cruel and inhumane.”  “I’ve been looking at my grandchildren’s faces and trying to imagine their terror if they were separated from their parents,” she said. “Just think of when a parent can’t find their kid in a store for five minutes, think of the terror they must feel having them taken away and they don’t know where they are or when they’ll see them again.”   Protesters holding signs at the rally on Saturday. Photo by Ben Olson.  According to the New York Times, more than 2,300 undocumented children have been separated from their parents in the weeks since the “zero tolerance” policy took effect – nearly 70 children per day for the first five weeks of the program. Under this policy, any adult caught crossing the border illegally faced prosecution, with their children separated and sent to federal shelters in various parts of the U.S.  President Donald Trump signed an executive order June 20 effectively reversing the family separation policy, but ten days after that order, there are still more than 2,000 children that have yet to be reunited with their parents.
121	adjudicated	3	Despite a stiff wind that made the weather Sunday afternoon feel much colder than the actual 37 degrees, 50 people gathered to participate in the Welcome to Hastings Immigrants Rally.  Participants in the rally, which was intended to celebrate immigrants as well as begin the process to try and make Hastings a sanctuary city, stretched from the Welcome to Hastings sign at the corner of 16th Street and North Burlington Avenue halfway down the block to 14th Street.     Rally organizer Margaret Marsh of Hastings was pleased with the participation.  advertisement “It was great considering the weather,” she said. “When I first came out to the corner and was by myself, you know, I had my doubts. It was great we had so many people who did turn out.”  Marsh said to begin the process to make Hastings a sanctuary city, The Welcome to Hastings Immigrants Rally Facebook page is collecting signatures to petition the Hastings City Council to pass a resolution stating as a municipal law enforcement agency, Hastings Police Officers do not stop motorists to ask them about their immigration status.  “It really isn’t changing any sort of policy,” Marsh said. “It’s just making it public, making people aware of it, that that is the status of Hastings, that (HPD officers) will not round up people and be questioning their status.”  Robin Vodehnal of Hastings was among the rally participants.  “Immigrants have been getting a bad rap,” she said. “There’s been a lot bans with countries and we really want to send the message that Hastings is a friendly community. We’re not here to persecute anyone. We want to welcome people, we want to help people. Direct action is the way to do that.”  Dressed in insulated snow pants, Vodehnal handed out hand warmers to other people gathered along Burlington Avenue. She, too, was worried about a low turnout because of the weather conditions.  “But it looks like people are standing by their principles," she said.  Some motorists passing by offered support throughout the hour-long rally by honking and waving.  advertisement That support was interrupted a couple of times — once by a teenager in the back seat of a SUV who yelled “Make America Great Again,” “Build a wall,” and “Donald Trump,” and another time by a pair of pickups with American flags — one truck also had a Confederate flag — that cruised by the rally several times.  “It just makes us more determined,” Marsh said. “That’s what they need to understand, is that this is not something we’re going to give up on. We will keep on our position and stay on our message.”  She chose 16th and Burlington for the rally because there is a lot of visibility since it is a high-traffic area and because of the Welcome to Hastings sign at that intersection.  “I thought that reiterated our message on that corner,” she said.  While most of the rally participants brought their own signs, Marsh brought a handful herself, some of which said “Welcome to Hastings” in one of several different languages.  Other signs included “We Stand with Her” with a silhouette of the Statue of Liberty and “Equality for All.”  Among signs promoting inclusiveness, Judy Dangler of Trumbull waved a large version of the golden and red Royal Banner of Scotland that belonged to Don Robertson of Hastings.   The two had never met prior to Sunday’s rally and just happened to arrive at the same time.  Robertson, a first generation American of Scottish ancestry, asked Dangler to hold the flag while he held the small speaker that broadcast chants led by Marsh.  “It just seemed appropriate,” he said of the decision to bring the flag.
122	adjudicated	4	CORRECTION: Earlier versions of this story had an incorrect first name for Maria Matos.  It was a small, yet staunch group that gathered Thursday morning in Wilmington's Freedom Plaza to send Gov. John Carney a message about immigration reform and enforcement.  "It is critical that we in Delaware do all that we can to reject the war that has been declared on the immigrant communities," Latin American Community Center President Maria Matos shouted, before urging Carney to declare Delaware a "sanctuary state."  "It's important that we stand up for what's right and what's just," she said. "We must resist. We must be a voice."  Matos was joined by the American Civil Liberties Union of Delaware and the Delaware Civil Rights Commission at a rally to urge protection for immigrants and their families. They also supported efforts being taken by the Christina school board to protect immigrant students.  Tanua Djanegara, of Wilmington, holds a sign during a rally held Thursday morning in Wilmington by the ACLU of Delaware. The organizations and more than 500 individuals signed a letter to Carney asking he use his authority as governor to shield local immigrants and their families from a massive deportation effort being organized by the Trump administration.  MORE: Trump budget drops Chesapeake funding  MORE: DNREC chief confirmed over GOP objections   Specifically, they have asked that Carney resists authorizing any state agencies from entering into formal cooperation agreements with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, as well as direct the Department of Correction not to hold anyone for ICE without a judicial arrest warrant. The letter also asks that Carney take steps to protect any state or local databases that include immigration status from being shared with federal agencies without a judicial order – i.e., data on driving privilege cards.   There is concern that local policy agencies will become authorized to arrest and detain immigrants in the country illegally under so-called 287(g) agreements, which Trump has vowed to revitalize and expand. Section 287(g) refers to a section of the Immigration and Nationality Act that lets the federal government enter into memorandums of understanding with state and local law enforcement agencies, permitting designated officers to perform immigration enforcement.  A rally held by the American Civil Liberties Union of Delaware, the Latin American Community Center and others Thursday morning in Wilmington asked the governor to protect immigrants in Delaware from possible deportation. "The local, Wilmington, county and state police have spent years gaining the trust of immigrant communities so that immigrants are unafraid to report crime," Matos said. "287(g) will destroy years of work and bring an end to that trust and, I would venture to say, will lead to increased crime in immigrant communities."  "Inherent suspicion of police is dangerous to a community's well-being whether that community is comprised of immigrants or the native-born."   Carney, issued a statement in response to the rally: “Delaware will remain a safe, welcoming community for everyone to educate their children, have access to good-paying jobs and pursue the American Dream. President Trump’s actions on immigration have understandably caused anxiety and fear. I will continue to meet with members of our immigrant communities, listen to their concerns and do everything I can to ensure that Delaware is a welcoming place."  Kathleen MacRae, executive director of the ACLU, said Trump's immigration policy perpetuates a culture of xenophobia and white nationalism.  Kathleen MacRae, the Executive Director of the ACLU of Delaware, speaks during a rally Thursday in Wilmington. "We believe in human rights, civil rights, fairness and justice," she said.  Signs with "Love thy neighbor, no exception" and "Say no to fascism" dotted the crowd.  MORE: 4 hospitalized after using grill to heat home  MORE: 62 agencies and programs Trump wants to eliminate  Tanua Djanegara of Wilmington had a sign so large it nearly obscured her entire body. "This nation was founded by immigrants. Proud to be American Muslim Immigrant," it read.  Jeff Lott, a member of the First Unitarian Church of Wilmington, known for displaying a large "Black Lives Matter" banner in front of its building, said Delaware has a chance to lead the nation by standing up to protect its immigrants.  "I'm here because I believe in basic human rights," he said.  A rally Thursday morning in Wilmington by the ACLU of Delaware released an open letter to Governor John Carney asking him to protect immigrants and their families living in the state from deportation. Charito Calvachi Mateyko, coordinator of the Delaware Civil Rights Coalition, said those rights are being violated and that hate is overwhelming America and becoming normalized.  "It is not normal," she said. "It is not American. It is not what America stands for — and we are all here today to testify to that."  Immigration reform does need to be tackled, Mateyko said, just not in the way the Trump administration has chosen.   "We need broad immigration policy form that both parties have called for, but instead this administration, perhaps for political reasons, has focused solely on separating screaming children born in America away from their mothers," she said. "This is a distraction from getting the real hard job of immigration policy reform done."    View in new tab Jea Street, a New Castle County Council member, agreed.   "I am concerned and alarmed as you are," he told the crowd. "... Our nation is losing its conscience, and the torch being held by the Statue of Liberty is near extinguished."   Whether or not the governor, state assembly or Christina School District takes action to protect immigrants locally will remain to be seen, though Rep. Paul Baumbach, D-Newark, told the crowd Thursday, "When the people lead, their leaders will follow."   Upcoming action includes a Christina school board vote on a new "sanctuary" policy next week, which may be the first test of the group's support.  Going forward, each of the organizations will keep fighting for justice, Matos promised. It's something she's done most of her life, ever since she was arrested at age 17 for standing up to police after she saw them beat two Latino kids standing on a street corner.   "Now I'm 67, and I'm still standing up," she said. "I'll stand up until I die." 
123	adjudicated	3	ASHEVILLE, N.C. (WLOS) — An "interfaith procession" was held Thursday in solidarity with area immigrant communities.  Community members gathered at First Congregational United Church of Christ on Oak Street in downtown Asheville just before noon.    Members of more than 130 faith communities across 19 North Carolina counties, signed a "Declaration of Solidarity" since March 4, to show support for immigrants and their families.  The procession began with a unifying song for sanctuary as participants filed out of the church onto Oak Street, making their way toward the first stop at Beth Ha-Tephila Synagogue for prayer.  The procession then proceeded to the Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Asheville, where the declaration was presented to representatives of area immigrant communities.  Speakers from Nuestro Centro accepted the declaration. Miran Porrus and Geny Hernandez Lopez took turns reading the response in Spanish and then translating to English. They said, "As a member of the Asheville community, I receive this declaration in support of my community with an open heart. I give thanks for these efforts and would like to emphasize that this declaration is part of the reality currently lived in this country and that this country has lived in for centuries before."  The speakers emphasized the need for this support across minority communities.  Several houses of faith and worship are pledging to offer sanctuary to immigrants and their families, with many more considering doing the same or supporting congregations that do.  Land of the Sky United Church of Christ is pledging short-term sanctuary for those who need it.  "That means that we would house an immigrant individual or family for two to three nights," the Rev. Amanda Hendler-Voss said. "We don’t have a lot of shower and bathing facilities, and so we're unable to offer long-term sanctuary, but we would do it for two or three nights and really just provide a round the clock companionship, safety. We would do everything in our power to make sure that that family knows the extravagant radical welcome of our god."  Hendler-Voss said the shift in policy from the previous presidential administration has been dramatic. "We’ve recently in these times seen a crackdown that is impacting not only the communities that were previously impacted under the Obama administration, but really we're seeing people who are coming forward to report domestic violence being deported, we're seeing dreamers be deported, we’re seeing people who are what they’re calling quote unquote collateral damage be deported, where they are not violent criminals by any stretch of the imagination and yet they’re being taken from their homes.  "We as faith leaders feel that it’s so important across religious traditions, across faith traditions, to come together and say that we will not stand for this," Hendler-Voss continued. "That we believe in loving our neighbors as ourselves and we will protect our neighbors."  As of today, the declaration had collected more than 1,775 signatures and is open again to collect more signatures. It can be read in full and signed by visiting the website here.
124	adjudicated	1	A growing crowd was gathering Wednesday evening in front of the Hall of Justice in downtown Los Angeles Wednesday night to protest the Los Angeles County sheriff’s opposition to a bill to declare California a “sanctuary state.”  Los Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell voiced his opposition recently to state Senate Bill 54, which would declare all of California a sanctuary state. His comments, sent in a letter to state Senate Pro Tem Kevin de Leon, were in line with those of sheriffs from other counties in Southern California. De Leon, D-Los Angeles, introduced the bill in December. It would limit law enforcement’s involvement in any federal immigration enforcement in the state.  On Wednesday, more than 100 people were gathering in front of the Hall of Justice downtown, holding signs that read, “One struggle, united” and “We demand immigrant rights.”  “The sheriff, the elected official of Los Angeles, one of the most immigrant counties in the United States, is lobbying against this type of legislation to make California a sanctuary state,” said David Abud, with the National Day Laborer Organizing Network. “We’re here to tell him to stop lobbying. Cease and desist,” he said, shouting to be heard over booming music.  “His argument is that if we don’t pass this, ICE is going to carpet-bomb our community with deportation. That is a ridiculous argument,” Abud said.  Activists at the protest said representatives from Advancing Justice-LA and Clue Justice were meeting with McDonnell Wednesday evening.  The L.A. Sheriff’s Department runs all of the county’s jails. McDonnell said the department’s current practice is to release inmates being investigated by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Immigration and Customs Enforcement, better known as ICE, directly into the custody of their agents. If that transfer process is severed, McDonnell said the result would be ICE agents fanning out into neighborhoods across the region in search of undocumented immigrants with orders for deportation.  Staff Writers Elizabeth Chou and Antonie Boessenkool contributed to this report.
125	adjudicated	4	Grand Rapidians took to the streets for the annual César E. Chávez Social Justice March, calling for the respect, dignity and protection of all immigrants and emphasizing the driving force that migrant and seasonal farm workers play in the economy of West Michigan and the country. Lupe Ramos-Montigny remembers three summers of her childhood, seasons now decades ago, like they were yesterday: the months when she would travel with her parents, Ysidro and Maria, and seven of her nine siblings from her hometown of Weslaco, Texas north to Michigan. There, Ramos-Montigny, now a Grand Rapidian who serves on the State Board of Education, would spend the 10th, 11th and 12th summers of her life harvesting beets in a town at the tip of the Mitten State’s thumb, Caseville, and picking cherries in Old Mission Peninsula, a region just north of Traverse City.  She remembers the temporary housing for the workers, the places without running water or electricity, the long days under the hot summer sun, and the little, but much-needed, pay given to her father, who ran a filling station in Texas when he wasn’t working in Michigan. She remembers the tiny towns, the beauty of the land (the kind of beauty that inspired her to return to Michigan after she graduated from college), the rural roads her father traversed with ease. (“How did he know where to go? We were in these tiny towns, rural places. I have no idea,” she says.)  “The Old Mission Peninsula is beautiful, plain beautiful,” Ramos-Montigny says. “I always wanted to come back because it’s so beautiful. So I came as a teacher; I came to teach the children of migrant farm workers here after college.”  One of thousands of seasonal farm workers who drive the economy in Michigan, and one of millions of seasonal, and migrant, farm workers who support the United States’ now $28 billion fruit and vegetable industry, Ramos-Montigny has forever appreciated, and been inspired by, this community of laborers: the people from throughout the United States, Mexico and other countries who spend exhausting days harvesting the produce that ends up in grocery stores and restaurants around the country. These are the people who feed an entire country.  “We take everything for granted: you go to Meijer, and there’s a lot of produce, whether it be frozen, canned or fresh,” says Ramos-Montigny. “Let’s say, someday, you go and there’s no produce. You’ll say, ‘Oh my gosh, what am I going to do? Many people say, ‘Oh, these people, these farm workers, are taking our jobs,’ but they don’t know what they’re saying. It’s very difficult to harvest; you’re bending down all day. It’s hard work. Other people won’t take these jobs. The farm owners, the growers, they do not want to get rid of the farm workers. The economy altogether will go down.”  Ramos-Montigny knows the sacrifices the farm workers make; she understands the recognition they deserve, but do not receive; she knows the people in the fields, the ones like her father, who was born in Mexico and who had to leave school after the third grade to help his family. He’d go on to educate himself by listening to the radio, Ramos-Montigny explains, and would become a civic leader who would put his daughters and sons through college so they could go on to become educators, nurses and other professions. Ramos-Montigny received her Master’s in bilingual education from Grand Valley State University and worked in Michigan’s public schools for 36 years, with most of her professional career being dedicated to the Grand Rapids Public Schools.   Lupe Ramos-Montigny, right.   “They were such strong role models,” says Ramos-Montigny, whose respect and admiration for the farm worker community would propel her to get involved as the chairperson of the local Committee to Honor César E. Chávez, a migrant worker who became a leading champion for farm workers’ rights and founded the United Farm Workers of America. A local community and collegiate collaborative founded in 2000, the Committee to Honor César E. Chávez aims to promote awareness and educational opportunities in West Michigan’s Latinx communities, including by holding the annual César E. Chávez Social Justice day of activities. This year, the events, including a march and a community gathering, took place on Thursday, March 16.  “Everybody was so happy, and everybody’s spirits were so high,” Ramos-Montigny says of Thursday’s march that ran along Grandville Avenue and concluded with a community gathering at The Potter’s House. “Everybody was so united; it made me feel really, really good. It was a day of pride in who we are — as Hispanics, as farm workers, as followers of César Chávez.  “It didn’t matter if you were there as a farm worker or lawyer or police chief, we were all working towards respect, dignity and protection of all immigrants,” she continues. “This was unity in the community. We had elected officials, presidents of colleges, police chiefs… It was an emotional time. It was therapy for many people because of all the negative things that are being said. It was refreshing; it was emotional; it was a cleansing.”  Marching for justice  “Sí, se puede! Sí, se puede! Sí, se puede!” the children from César E. Chávez Elementary School yell at Thursday’s march, gleefully outstretching their arms to wave at the hundreds of people making their way past them on Grandville Avenue: a crowd made up of farm workers, immigrant rights activists, students, educators, politicians, and other community leaders.  Already energized by the 17th annual César E. Chávez Social Justice March, the crowd echoes the children’s chants as they proudly wave flags from places like Mexico, Puerto Rico, El Salvador, the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Cuba, Argentina, and elsewhere: “Sí, se puede! Sí, se puede! Sí, se puede!”  These words — a Spanish phrase that essentially translates to “yes, one can” — are the motto of the United Farm Workers that Chávez and UFW co-founder Dolores Huerta came up with while Chávez embarked on a 25-day “Fast for Love” in 1972 after the Arizona state legislature passed a bill that denied farm workers the right to strike during harvest seasons. Since then, “sí, se puede” has gone on to become the rallying cry for social justice among labor unions, civil rights organizations and immigrants rights activists. Plus, former U.S. President Barack Obama used a variation of it, “Yes, we can,” throughout his political campaigns, beginning with his 2004 bid for the U.S. Senate.  Now, at a time when U.S. President Donald Trump has demonized Mexico and Mexicans, consistently employed anti-immigrant and anti-refugee rhetoric, and implemented policies that could target millions of people living in the U.S. for deportation, this phrase holds increased weight for immigrants and immigrants’ rights advocates in our community — and across the country.   Dr. Juan Olivarez, Lupe Ramos-Montigny, and Dr. Steven Ender   “Two days ago, I signed a letter to Trump, along with hundreds of other college presidents, regarding the 750,000 ‘Dreamers’ in our colleges and universities who are being threatened,” Aquinas College President Dr. Juan Olivarez says at the community gathering following the march. The “Dreamers” to whom Olivarez is referring are young undocumented immigrants who are protected from being deported under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA. The Trump administration has reportedly been eyeing ways to eliminate this protection.  “These bright and talented young people are working, are studying at colleges and universities, or have enlisted in the armed services,” the letter reads. “Because they now have work permits, they are making immediate contributions to our society and our economy. They are paying taxes, receiving driver’s licenses, and buying cars and first homes, all of which generates revenue for federal, state, and local governments. They are ineligible for federal means-tested welfare benefits, Pell Grants, and federal student loans, as well as health care tax subsidies.  “Unfortunately, many of these young people now live in fear that the program will be rolled back or revoked,” the letter continues. “In order to lift this cloud of fear, we ask that you commit to allowing these productive and high-achieving individuals to continue to work and study while your administration and Congress arrive at a permanent solution.”  Despite the deportation fears facing immigrants throughout our country, the words that were repeatedly shouted throughout the march: “sí, se puede,” are a powerful rebuke of the Trump administration, and a reminder of the strong and resilient Latinx, Hispanic and immigrant communities throughout the country, including here in Grand Rapids.  “We were recognizing and dedicating the day to ‘a Day Without Immigrants,’ a cause that’s affecting our community, especially our farm workers,” Ramos-Montigny says, referring to the Day Without Immigrants, a protest and boycott that took place on Feb. 16 to demonstrate the crucial role immigrants play in our economy, as well as to protest Trump’s plans to build a wall along the Mexican border and mass deportations. Residents across the country participated, including people who marched in Grand Rapids and Wyoming.  “There are many undocumented farm workers,” Ramos-Montigny continues, referring to the estimated 1.2 million to 1.75 million undocumented farm workers in the United States. “If they go, the crops will rot in the fields. They play a vital role in our economy and the American way of life.”   While many of the themes of the day's event have remained the same over the years, Thursday's gathering was dramatically different than the first march in Grand Rapids 17 years ago. At that time, the parade had a humble start, Ramos-Montigny explains.  “The first march was on the sidewalk; we didn’t have a permit, but we knew we wanted to march,” she says. “Before that, we had been going to Saginaw to have a César Chávez day over there, but then we spoke to the city about having it here, and they said, ‘Absolutely, yes.’”  Since then, the march has gone on to draw hundreds of people each year, with such officials as Olivarez, the Aquinas College president; Grand Rapids Community College President Steven Ender; Grand Valley State University Vice President Jesse Bernal; Grand Rapids Public Schools Superintendent Teresa Weatherall-Neal; Grand Rapids Police Chief David Rahinsky, and various elected officials attending the event last week.  Additionally, the event garners major support from community partners throughout the city and region, including Ferris State University, Fifth Third Bank, the Grand Rapids Public Museum, Aquinas College, Davenport University, Downtown Grand Rapids Inc., Calvin College, GRCC, the City High School Chorale, Fountain Street Church, Innovation Central’s JROTC, La Tremenda de Michigan, Lazo Cultural Newspaper, United Methodist Women, and WKTV.  Taking place along a nearly one-mile stretch of Grandville Avenue (which also bears the name César E. Chávez Way), from the Grandville Avenue Arts & Humanities to The Potter’s House School, the procession takes marchers into the heart of the city’s Latinx community. Latinx individuals make up about 16 percent of Grand Rapids, according to the latest U.S. Census numbers, and that number continues to rise — as does the number of Latinx businesses.  As individuals processed past places like the Hispanic Center of West Michigan, Rincon Criollo Restaurant, Tacos El Cuñado, and Rodriguez Supermarket, many store employees and patrons came out to cheer on the marchers. Photo-snapping parents place cheering children on their shoulders, as the youngest to the oldest participants wave flags, laugh, and link arms with fellow community members. This is no small thing, this show of solidarity: in the face of constant adversity, it is bravery. It is emblematic of the signs drawn by the César E. Chávez Elementary School students: “Stand united,” “change the world to be a better place,” “somos unidos.” And, of course, “sí, se puede!”     Rallying to support the children of farm workers  Following the march, the crowd assembled in The Potter’s House building for the César E. Chávez Community Gathering, which honored two college presidents, Olivarez, of Aquinas, and Ender, of GRCC, for their commitment to providing scholarships to Hispanic students. The Committee to Honor César E. Chávez has in recent years worked with Aquinas and GRCC, as well as other colleges in the region, to honor Chávez by providing annual scholarship to the sons and daughters of farm workers in the community. Last year, the committee awarded five $1,000 scholarships to students.  The committee began its scholarship program at GRCC, where it provides six $1,000 scholarships, and it has given seven scholarships at Grand Valley State University, where they are about halfway through raising money for a $200,000 scholarship endowment. Five years ago, the committee worked with Davenport University to start the four-year "Sí, se puede César E. Chávez Scholarship," and Aquinas launched its four-year Chávez scholarship program last year.  “We think it’s very, very important to raise up all the students,” Ramos-Montigny says. Olivarez, who began his career in education as a teacher in the Grandville area 45 years ago, stresses during the community gathering that “César Chávez knew unity meant respecting every individual. “There are three levels of unity: acceptance, agreement, and really the best way to unity is through alignment,” he continues. “It is with this alignment that we will create change and create social justice for all.”  As Olivarez did, Ender speaks of deep concerns regarding the Trump administration’s impact on students, and society in general. “I traveled to Mexico last year, and, for the first time traveling there, I felt shame,” Ender says. “I am a patriot; I love the United States of America… so to be ashamed at the present moment is quite troubling.  “But I’m not going to feel shame in my city of Grand Rapids,” he continues. “I can do something in my role in the city of Grand Rapids, and I can certainly do something with the federal situation four years from now.”
126	adjudicated	2	A traffic stop in Geneseo Thursday evening involving two women and six children led to a protest at the U.S. Border Patrol station in Irondequoit, where a state trooper was struck by an object and a Rochester man arrested.  Two individuals — a woman and her 12-year-old brother — were sent to immigration officials in Buffalo. One other woman was already in the immigration system. Four of the other children are U.S. citizens. One is Guatemalan.  Philipp Birklbauer, 29, was charged with five counts, including criminal mischief, reckless endangerment and resisting arrest, for his alleged actions during a protest overnight at the station, 171 Pattonwood Drive. He was arraigned Friday morning in Irondequoit Town Court and remanded to Monroe County Jail on $5,000 bail or $10,000 bond.  State Police reported there were about 75 protesters at the Border Patrol station.  According to court documents, Irondequoit police and New York State Police allege that Birklbauer threw a cylindrical object that struck Trooper Thomas J. Loewke on the side of his head, just missing his eye.  Lisa Englert of Hamlin, takes part in a rally outside the Federal Building to protest government treatment of immigrants and their families. A rally to draw attention to the detainment of farmworkers in Orleans and Livingston counties was held Friday afternoon outside the Kenneth B. Keating Federal Building, 100 State St. in Rochester. The entrance of the building was barricaded. About 200 people gathered peacefully, calling for equality and togetherness.  "In Episcopal faith we question things, we question religion," said the Rev. Ruth Ferguson from Christ Church on East Avenue in Rochester who was representing the faith community. "We ask ourselves, 'Is this the religion I need to practice?' A test of that is, 'Does it produce and promote the well-being, spiritually and materially of other people?' That's a good question to ask if you want to be a law-abiding citizen. I do, but are these laws producing and promoting justice?"   The crowd responded, "No."  Traffic stop in Geneseo The protest at the Border Patrol station was the second in response to events that began about 6:15 p.m. Thursday. A Geneseo police officer stopped a vehicle that allegedly was speeding on South Street (Route 20A) in the village and needed help identifying the two adults who were from Guatemala and six children.   Neither of the adults spoke English, and neither was a licensed driver, said Geneseo Police Chief Eric Osganian. The driver did have a Guatemala passport, according to the chief. Border Patrol later reported that she did not have a visa to be in the United States. The children ranged in age from 2 months to 12 years old.  Osganian wrote in an email that the officer called Border Patrol to confirm the passport and get help identifying the driver. "We are not experts in these types of documents, as Border Patrol is," he wrote. "Border Patrol has been our resource in assisting us with this. The call was not made as an immigration purpose, solely for identification purposes."   Osganian said a crowd gathered to protest the call to Border Patrol, and that started to play out on social media as bystanders recorded the event.  Osganian said the crowd created a dangerous situation. "We don't want people on the side of the road at night," he wrote.  "I am very supportive of the way it was handled," said village Mayor Richard Hatheway. "I think that some people are looking at it as though there is a witch hunt going on in Geneseo. That is not the case at all. It must be remembered, the reason the car was stopped in the first place was because they were exceeding the speed limit."   Hatheway said that a few weeks ago he asked for data on the number of traffic stops for any sort of infraction that turned out to involve someone in the country illegally. "Last year there was one," he said. "We might have had at one point about 10 years ago as many as four. But this is a highly unusual incident to occur."  Hatheway said the incident has stirred emotions in the village.  "I don't think that everybody realizes the responsibility that the police department has, that law enforcement has, partly because of what's happening on the national level," he said. "It gets drilled down to the very local scale. ... As soon as you mention Border Patrol or ICE (Immigration and Customs Enforcement) , these images of goons come up and that's just not the case. The village police department is exceptionally sympathetic."  ►MORE: Full statement from Geneseo Police Chief Eric Osganian  Role of Border Patrol  Border Patrol has access to databases that local police may not, and Jones said they get requests to help with identifications.   Border Patrol initially responded to the Geneseo request by sending a pickup truck. The decision then was made to bring the individuals to Rochester to continue the identification process, according to agent Corey Jones of the public affairs office in the Buffalo sector headquarters.  He said the group was transported in a passenger van, with child seats for the young ones. Once in Rochester, he said the children were fed and given toys.  A crowd gathers as part of a rally outside the Federal Building to protest government treatment of immigrants and their families. Names of the individuals have yet to released by ICE or Border Patrol, but Jones did explain some of the family relationship and their status.  Jones said on Friday that one woman and her 12-year-old brother were in the country illegally. They were transported to immigration officials in Buffalo and were scheduled to be released Friday.  Jones said that the woman requested that her children, who are U.S. citizens ranging from 2 months to 4 years old, be released to her sister.   In addition, her 4-year-old Guatemalan daughter was released to the woman. Jones said the child's status will be determined by ICE, but she will not be separated from her mother, Jones said.  Bystander account Evan Goldstein, a senior at SUNY Geneseo, was making dinner in his campus apartment when two other friends came by and told them a passerby had come upon the traffic stop near the SUNY Geneseo campus. According to what Goldstein was told, the passerby saw the driver was upset and she asked the officer about the situation. When the officer told her he was calling Border Patrol, the passerby flagged down his two friends and asked them if some students could help.  ​Goldstein said he contacted the Worker Justice Center of New York, and then word began to spread through social media.  Goldstein said about 100 students showed up, with some live-streaming the event on Facebook. Some also went to the Border Patrol station.  Protesters attempted to block vehicles from leaving a border patrol station in Irondequoit. Goldstein said the protest in Geneseo also attracted professors and townspeople. He said it was orderly, but people were condemning the officer and the Border Patrol agents.  "There is broad sympathy for the migrant population in Geneseo," Goldstein said. "There is not much broad sympathy for the police in Geneseo."  Goldstein said he did not know what pressures were on the officer when he called Border Patrol, but he said the vulnerable populations feel they are targets of police.  Hatheway, the mayor, said that if police officers don't make routine stops and something bad happens down the road, they are derelict in their duties. "If you get a hold of a couple of women and a bunch of kids, you look like real monsters. Nobody knew that when the car got pulled over."  In Irondequoit, the protesters were met by Border Patrol personnel, Irondequoit police and state troopers.  Protesters attempt to block vehicles from leaving a border patrol station in Irondequoit. They blocked the main driveway out of the station a few times by sitting in the road.  They chanted, "Let them go. Let them go." They called law enforcement officials Nazis and fascists and questioned why they wanted to be officers. Most of the officers did not respond. Yellow crime scene tape and a few feet separated the two sides for most of the night.   Goldstein described the Irondquoit protest at times as a candlelight vigil. He said he did not see the incident where the trooper reported being struck.  Jones, for the Border Patrol,  said he can understand why the public could get upset, but he said that agents need to make sure they have all the facts before releasing information. Jones said he received a call from the U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants, apologizing for some of the actions outside the station.
127	adjudicated	3	FRANKFORT, IL — Hundreds of people gathered Saturday at Frankfort's Breidert Green to speak out against Trump administration's practice of separating children from parents who cross illegally into the United States. The Frankfort rally and march were part of more than 700 similar events around the country protesting the "zero tolerance" immigration policy that was only recently put on hold by an executive order from President Donald Trump.   The administration's reversal of its so-called border separation — as well as sweltering temperatures in the 90s — didn't stop demonstrators from listening to several speakers before eventually marching through the village's downtown. Protesters proceeded down Nebraska Street to Old Plank Trail and the pedestrian bridge over LaGrange Road. That's where participants displayed handmade signs as cars drove by, occasionally honking in support.  Patch editor Joe Vince live-streamed Saturday's event, and you can watch the speeches given during the rally in the above video. He also interviewed some of the demonstrators to find out why they participated in the march. (Editor's note: Temperatures were so hot Saturday that the camera shut down and could not be unlocked until the device had cooled down. The following footage from the event was taken before the camera overheated.)   ORIGINAL STORY  FRANKFORT, IL — When organizers began putting together a Frankfort rally and march as part of the nationwide Families Belong Together series of demonstrations Saturday, the Trump administration still was enforcing a "zero tolerance" policy of separating children from parents who cross illegally into the United States. But even after President Donald Trump signed an executive order eliminating the border separation practice, activists behind these protests urge people to remain vigilant when it comes to holding the administration accountable.   Find out what's happening in Frankfortwith free, real-time updates from Patch. Your email address Let's go! "From my perspective, the whole intent of the march was to make sure that the administration — that people in the area — knew the importance of families, of keeping families together," said Emily Biegel, founder of Southwest Suburban Activists, which is sponsoring the Frankfort demonstration. "That should be of the utmost responsibility for anybody."  The Frankfort event will be at 11 a.m. Saturday, June 30, at Breidert Green. Participants will gather for a rally before marching through downtown to Old Plank Trail and across the LaGrange Road pedestrian bridge. (Check back at that time to watch live video of the event by Patch editor Joe Vince)   More than 700 similar rallies will be held at the same time in all 50 states, with the main demonstration being held in Washington, D.C. Organizers hope these events not only reunite families broken up because of the country's border separation practice, but also force the Trump administration to re-examine its immigration policies.  RELATED: Family Separations At The Border: Illinois Protests On June 30   "[The executive order] doesn't provide any comfort for the families already separated and makes no attempts to rectify matters," said Jennifer Kmitch, a New Lenox resident and SWSA board member who helping to put together the protest. "I think from a humanity standpoint, I don't think anybody should feel comfortable right now as it stands. I don't think anybody should feel like we should be sitting on our laurels and not doing anything."  Along with speaking out, education also will be a key part of Saturday's event. Speakers will include:  the Rev. Greg Millikin of Grace Episcopal Church in New Lenox Rama Atieh, a social worker with the Syrian Community Network in Chicago Dr. Dora Marie Johns Wolfe, a clinical psychologist in New Lenox Rima Najia, immigration and citizenship coordinator at Arab American Family Services in Bridgeview  U.S. Rep. Robin Kelly (D-2nd District) is set to attend the rally, as well.  Organizers of Saturday's rally and march might share a political ideology, but that's not the strongest thread that ties many of them together.   "We're all mothers," Kmitch said. "This really hit home, that someone could take our kid — anybody's kid — to take them away, to rip them away and take them some place other than their parents' arms, that is just disgusting."  Frankfort resident Michelle Donecki, an event organizer also on the group's board, echoed those sentiments.  "I'm a parent, and if anybody took my child away from me and I'm seeking asylum … words can't even express," she said, adding that she has relatives who agreed with the original border separation policy, arguing that "the law is the law."  But Tammy Georgiou, Donecki's fellow SWSA board member, thinks those beliefs fly in the face of the principles this country was built on.  "It's so horrible," the Palos Hills resident said. "It's not what we as a country are about. I can't reconcile it, and I need to have my voice heard with other people who feel the same way. We need to raise our voices and let the administration know that this is not acceptable."
128	adjudicated	4	From a 94-year-old Holocaust survivor in Highland Park to a 3-year-old in Barrington, hundreds rallied Saturday in the north suburbs as part a nationwide day of protest against immigration policies.  More than 700 “Families Belong Together” events were held across the country. In Chicago, police estimated more than 50,000 people attended a march at Daley Plaza. Meanwhile, despite sweltering weather conditions north suburban residents gathered in Highland Park, Glenview, Arlington Heights and Barrington for their own rallies and marches.  Highland Park Police estimated the crowd size at 300, according to Highland Park Mayor Nancy Rotering, who was one of the speakers at the rally. Some attendees estimated the crowd may have been even larger. Cathy Wilson, who helped organize the rally and march in Glenview, said there approximately 150 at that event. An event in Barrington drew an estimated 600 people while about 500 demonstrators gathered in Arlington Heights, according to organizers.  Suzanne Greenwald, one of the organizers of the Highland Park event, is a retired Elm Place Middle School teacher. She said the goal of the event was to demand the reunification of families separated when entering the U.S., an elimination of family detention and an end of President Donald Trump’s zero-tolerance policy.  ADVERTISEMENT  One person who came to the rally in the 94-degree heat at Port Clinton Square was Highland Park resident Nicole Terry, 94, a Holocaust survivor and immigrant herself. She said she knows what it is like to be separated from her parents.  [Most read] Naperville boasts 2 of the top 10 restaurants for fried chicken in suburbs, according to Yelp users » “My parents had to hide us for six months in a convent far away from them,” Terry’s sign read. “This was France 1944. It is now USA 2018. Never again.”  Terry said she was eventually reunited with the surviving members of her family and made her way to the U.S. in 1964.  Solomon Sommer, a Highland Park second grader, was busy sitting at a table drawing a picture to send to one of the children now in a detention center.  “It’s a good luck bug,” Sommer said. “It looks like a bug but it’s as big as a horse. It’s to bring luck to the kids so they can get back together with their parents.”  Phyllis Sommer, Solomon’s mother, said it was important to bring her children to rallies like these to experience a communal expression of support for a cause.   ADVERTISEMENT  ADVERTISEMENT  [Most read] Judge dismisses lawsuit over Obama Presidential Center location in Chicago’s Jackson Park; open space group vows to continue legal fight » While a large event was already scheduled for downtown Chicago, Greenwald said she wanted to attend one closer to home and posted a message on Facebook.  That message was read by Stephanie Jacobs Luger, one of Greenwald’s former students, and Michelle Kramer, the mother of some of Greenwald’s students. Luger said she responded to the Facebook post and a group formed to make the rally a reality.  The hour-long Highland Park rally consisted of speeches from elected officials and activists interspersed with protest songs.  Greenwald and Kramer made it clear this was not a political event and the messages of elected officials and those who want to unseat them in November were similar. Both state Sen. Julie Morrison (D-Deerfield) and Barrett Davie, a Lake Forest resident running against her, expressed their distaste for the separation of families.  When Rep. Brad Schneider (D-Deerfield) spoke he said “we must keep families together” and called for their “immediate reunification” citing legislation he is co-sponsoring to do just that. He asked for a show of hands of immigrants, children of immigrants or grandchildren of immigrants and nearly every hand was raised.  [Most read] Stellantis announces more layoffs coming for hard-hit Jeep plant in Belvidere » Douglas Bennett, a Deerfield resident who is running against Schneider in November, did not attend the rally but said in a text separating families “is terrible law and bad policy.” He too wants a bipartisan effort to change the policy.  In Glenview, Wilson said the group gathered at the Glenview War Memorial and listened to speeches from both scheduled speakers and others who wanted to talk as well. After the speeches, the group marched on Waukegan Road from the memorial to Lake Street.  “There is no place for this kind of inhuman treatment of people at the border and it has to stop,” Wilson in a telephone interview.  Elected officials and clergy members spoke at the Glenview rally including Dilnaz Waraich from the Muslim Community Center in Morton Grove.  “The intentional separation of children from their parents is not only an immoral act, but it is also a practice that will likely cause irreparable harm to these children,” Waraich said in her prepared remarks.  [Most read] ‘One step at a time’: Chicago Bears remain in a waiting game for a potential new stadium in Arlington Heights » In Barrington, residents gathered in front of Barrington Village Hall, chanting their support for immigrant children who have been separated from their parents and opposing the Trump administration’s immigration policies.  Staged near village hall, which also serves as a satellite office for Republican U.S. Rep. Peter Roskam, rally participants denounced the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency and the U.S. Justice Department's zero-tolerance policy that has attracted widespread outrage across the country in recent days.  As 2,000 immigrant children still wait to be reunited with their parents, the rally in Barrington was meant to send a message to the Trump administration for trying to separate migrant families, said Evelyn Malone, a Crystal Lake resident who is a chairwoman of Indivisible Northwest Illinois, which organized the Barrington event.  “The rally is about the babies and the people that have been in a very unfortunate situation. They came here for hope and a new life and found themselves in prison unexpectedly,” said Malone, a former schoolteacher in Texas who said she taught many immigrant children from Mexico and El Salvador. “At the moment, they don’t have a voice. It’s a human thing to do to help them regain their dignity and know that there are people in this nation that have heart.”  The rally, she said, attracted an estimated crowd of 600 people, who gathered along Hough Street, from Lake to Station streets, holding signs supportive of the Families Belong Together rallies and reciting lines like “No hate, no fear, immigrants are welcome here,” “Melt ICE,” and the Biblical passage, “For I was a stranger and you welcomed me.”  [Most read] Micky Dolenz, last survivor of the Monkees, celebrates the 1960s band in Rialto show » Near Arlington Heights Village Hall, an estimated crowd of about 500 gathered peacefully to show support for immigrant children, said Carina Homann-Santa Maria, one of the founding members of Voices of Community, Acceptance and Love of Arlington Heights (VOCAL), which organized the event with members of We the People/Mount Prospect.  Organizers wanted to stage the event within the center of the village to try and send a message to elected officials locally showing how important the issue is to area residents, she said.  “I’m so happy our community was able to get together and show support for what’s happened in our country,” Homann-Santa Maria said. “With the Fourth of July holiday coming up, we all do know America is a great country, and we want to make sure we keep the values that founded our country and support those who are oppressed by the policies that have come forth.”  The rally featured speeches from community leaders and elected officials who represent Arlington Heights and the surrounding area.  Organizers also collected cash, journals, clothes, art supplies and educational materials that will be distributed to the Chicago-based nonprofit Heartland Alliance and sent to immigrant children, who have been detained at the U.S.-Mexico border. Homann-Santa Maria said some people made cards with messages of support that will be sent to the border as a reminder to the kids.  [Most read] Academy of Motion Pictures: Will Smith was asked to leave Oscars after hitting Chris Rock but refused » “Everyone was peaceful,” she said. “We had a couple of instances of people driving by and not agreeing with the message, rolling down the window and saying ‘Go home’ or ‘Make America Great Again.’”  Arlington Heights police said they received no reports of injuries and incidents from the rally.  At the Barrington rally, dozens of drivers honked their horns in support of participants as they drove down Hough Street, while attendees battled the humidity and heat. One woman collapsed because of the heat and hit her head on the sidewalk, but Barrington paramedics quickly responded and treated her, police said.  The woman was alert and talking when she left the scene, said Barrington Sgt. Jen Whitcher, who was the only officer to monitor the event. She said a handful of counter protestors, wearing Trump T-shirts, gathered near the rally and placed leaflets on cars, but they never approached rally participants.  Most of the rally involved participants chanting and standing in unison, although the event featured a couple of speakers, as well as a musician.  [Most read] Column: As opening day approaches, have the White Sox and Cubs done enough this offseason? » “This is the story of 11 million undocumented immigrants living in the U.S.,” said Yesela Chavez, 25, of Palatine, who spoke during the rally. “These are immigrants fleeing from war-torn countries, impoverished and violent conditions.”  Zabair Khan, a Hoffman Estates resident and Inverness native who is a litigation attorney and board member of the Muslim Bar Association, also addressed Barrington participants, stating how recent events have forced him to have tough conversations with his children.  “Barrington is Republican and pretty inactive,” he said, noting the turnout for the rally on a hot day. “I’ve never seen this before, but it’s something that hits a nerve. People need to look at their kids and see Muslim kids, Syrian kids, Latino kids and not succumb to castigation or fearmongering and see them as our own.”  Alana Stephens, 37, of Round Lake, brought her two kids, 11-year-old Darren and 3-year-old Rory, to the rally to show support.  “We decided to come out because we feel these families and children need to be together, and we are their voice because they can’t speak for themselves,” Stephens said. “I would be devastated if my children were in that situation and I hope people would be speaking out for me.”
129	adjudicated	2	Peoria’s diversity was on full display during a pro-immigrant rally at the Gateway Building Sun.  About 120 people gathered to listen to a lineup of 10 speakers that included local physicians, activists, and students.  2018 Democratic gubernatorial candidate Ameya Pawar was also in the lineup. His father immigrated to the US from India. Pawar, a Chicago alderman, says only in America could an immigrant’s son be elected to City Council.  18156bdfc1478a33ab83019e1c77e1e8.jpg Credit Cassidy Foster / Peoria Public Radio / Peoria Public Radio Chicago Ald. Ameya Pawar introduced himself to attendees of a pro-immigration rally in Peoria Sun. Pawar is a Democratic candidate for Ill. governor. “Illinois has a long and storied history of resettling refugees and being welcoming to immigrants, like my family," Pawar said. "My perspective is we need to be a welcoming state, we need to make sure we’re protecting our friends, neighbors and families from the federal government.”    Pawar is one of six candidates in the Democratic field for the 2018 race for governor.  Pawar says Gov. Bruce Rauner should take steps to make Illinois a more welcoming state for immigrants and refugees.  “There are governors around the country, including Governor Cuomo, who’s talked about making sure that we pass legislation like the Illinois Trust Act, one that makes sure that we secure and protect the lives of immigrant and refugee populations,” Pawar said.   The Illinois Trust Act would limit the involvement of local police departments in federal immigration enforcement. It’s pending in general assembly. Gov. Rauner, a Republican, hasn’t taken a public stance on Pres. Donald Trump’s executive orders on immigration and travel from six Muslim-majority countries.  The American Immigration Council estimates that nearly 1 in 7 Illinoisans are foreign born. Almost half of them are naturalized US citizens who are eligible to vote.  The 10 speakers from different backgrounds and professions injected statements that, in essence, said “we are part of this community” or "you depend on us."     Two physicians, Rahmat Na'Allah and M. Jawad Javed, highlighted that one in four doctors in the US are foreign born. In Illinois, that number is higher, at 30 percent.     The children of immigrants also had a strong showing at Sunday night's event.  During the candlelight vigil following the evening's speeches, Rasheeda Na'Allah held a candle beside her mother, Rahmat.     "I used to want to go into medicine," Rasheeda Na'Allah said. "But I kind of want to go into business now."     Na'Allah, a 7th grader at Dunlap Middle School, says Pres. Trump's rhetoric  and policies aimed at immigrants and Muslims have had an effect on her plans for the future.     “We went to this one rally, where we were talking about women’s rights," Na'Allah siad. "And I think it would be cool to start a gym for women to have fun, and let loose."     Another student, Serene Musaitif, says she also plans on starting a business. Musaitif, a culinary arts and business junior at ICC, says she wants to open a Palestinian restaurant, so she can share her heritage with the region.
130	adjudicated	1	It may have been a sweltering weekend with the heat, but that didn’t stop more than 200 people from participating in a cause they believe in.  The “Families Belong Together” rally in Ottawa drew hundreds from LaSalle County as well as Milwaukee, Peoria, and Kansas City. The really was for an end to the family separation policy in Zero Tolerance, and to demand that children who have been separated from their parents be reunified.  The Ottawa rally was one of more than 700 that have been held throughout the United States. One of the main speakers was Sara Dady, the Democratic challenger to Congressman Adam Kinzingers seat in the House of Representatives.
131	adjudicated	1	QUINCY, IL — Nationwide demonstrations protesting the policy of separating immigrant families at the border reached the Tri-States in downtown Quincy.  Protesters held signs and shouted phrases like "civil rights are human rights'.  Katherine Daniels helped organized the event.  "As part of the administration's "zero tolerance" approach to illegal immigration, children have been separated from their families at the border while the parents are held for prosecution. Last week, the Department of Homeland Security announced that nearly 2,000 children had been separated at the border over the period beginning April 19 and ending in May. An unknown number of children taken from their families in June. There is no current plan to reunite these children with their families. Even though the revised policy claims it will reunite families, it may still incarcerate the whole family," said Daniels in a statement regarding the event. On Wednesday, President Trump signed an executive order that said families should not be separated, but confusion over the policy still remains.
132	adjudicated	1	Using Tax Day as a backdrop, hundreds of people protesting President Donald Trump's visit to a Wisconsin manufacturing company urged him to release his returns, admonishing the president with signs, chants, and even an inflated chicken supposed to bear his resemblance.  Trump had his own crowd of supporters outside Snap-on Inc. in Kenosha Tuesday, where he signed an executive order to tighten the rules for technology companies seeking to bring highly skilled foreign workers to the U.S.  Before his arrival at the tool-making company, protesters gathered at Sunnyside Park and lined nearby streets with signs that criticized several of Trump's policies. The protests started with a march of solidarity with undocumented immigrants.  The president's refusal to release his taxes was at the center of the protest, with Americans facing the deadline to file their own.  "Release Your Tax Returns! What or Who Are You Hiding," read one sign. "Grab him by the 1040," read another, a reference to raunchy comments Trump made about women during a 2005 taping of "Access Hollywood.  Tom Gilding, a retired high school teacher who was among the protesters, said Trump's decision not to release his taxes shows a lack of transparency in his administration. Gilding helped hold up an inflated chicken that was about 10 feet tall and meant to serve as an effigy of Trump. Gilding, 65, had a sign that read "What are you afraid of, Donald? Release your taxes."  "If the chicken could say anything, he would say that," he said.  Trump narrowly carried Wisconsin in November, making him the first Republican presidential candidate to win the state since 1984.  His promise of returning manufacturing jobs to the U.S. resonated with voters such as Chris Manoyan, 54, who joined the crowd of about a hundred Trump supporters gathered across the street from Snap-on while Trump was inside. Manoyan took time off from her job as a property manager to show support for Trump, waving a blue "Make America Great Again!" flag.  "I think he's done a lot in a short period of time. I think he's doing a good job," she said.
133	adjudicated	4	CHESTERFIELD, N.Y. — Dozens rallied in the North Country Saturday to show support for immigrants and refugees in our area.  Roughly 30 people gathered at the North Star Underground Railroad Museum in the Town of Chesterfield to stand with refugees living in Vermont and New York.  The rally was sponsored by the Champlain Valley Friends of Refugees.  Organizer Bobbi Perez said they chose to meet at the museum for a specific reason.  She said there are parallels between the slaves fleeing the south in the 19th century and what refugees and immigrants are experiencing today.  “People are fleeing for their lives, for freedom. For the desire of any human being to live out their life without threat of war, famine, their children being taken away to be bombed. We're in this together, it's a small world. We've got to stand together,” Perez said.  Chairman Robert Harsh said this is an important time to be supportive.  “I think the underlying issue is that there is just so much misinformation about who these people are. How they got here, what the issue is. There is just so much fear, which is really kind of unnecessary,” Harsh said.  The Champlain Valley Friends of Refugees provides welcoming events, forums and cultural activities on the New York side of Lake Champlain for refugees who have settled in Vermont.  Perez said the group is collecting donations for new families, including good used bicycles, bus passes and large pots and pans.
134	adjudicated	1	Hundreds of workers, business owners and families have rallied in five Connecticut cities to support immigrants' rights.   Monday's "Day Without Immigrants" event in Stamford, Danbury, Bridgeport and New Haven was among similar demonstrations held across the country to mark May Day, a traditional day for workers' rights demonstrations.  Some immigrant-owned businesses shut down for the day as part of the protest.  Politicians and hundreds of Connecticut residents attended a "Here to Stay" immigrants' rights rally in Hartford on Saturday. Gov. Dannel Malloy, Lt. Gov. Nancy Wyman, U.S. Sen. Richard Blumenthal and U.S. Rep. John Larson were among the attendees and speakers.  President Donald Trump has aggressively pursued immigration enforcement, and the government has threatened to withhold funding from so-called sanctuary cities that limit cooperation with federal immigration authorities.
135	adjudicated	4	ANDERSON — In solidarity with hundreds of protests happening across the country Saturday, around 60 people voiced their concerns against the nation’s immigration policy at a downtown park.  Community and government leaders spoke against President Donald Trump’s “zero-tolerance" immigration policy that up until a few days ago included taking children away from their parents and housing them in separate detention facilities.  “We are here today to protest the president and what is being done to these children — babies and toddlers,” said Patsy Wood Spencer, president of host organization One Nation Indivisible Madison County. “And we want to let our Latino community know that they are welcome here.”  Before it was abandoned, the zero-tolerance policy of prosecuting people caught entering the country illegally led officials to separate more than 2,000 children from their parents over several weeks in late spring.  Many of the protests centered on America’s singular history of being a country comprised almost entirely of immigrants.  “All of us, unless you are Native American, are here because of immigrants at one time,” said state Sen. Tim Lanane. “I wouldn’t be here except for in 1851 my grandparents … came to this country looking for a better life.”  For Lanane, it’s all about one of the country’s founding values: the importance of family.  “We believe in America and America believes in family, and families should never be separated,” he said. “America has always welcomed those families fleeing from oppression.”  State Rep. Terri Austin focused on what each of the protesters can do in their own day-to-day lives to resist the president’s conservative views on immigration along the southern border.  “We all say ‘vote,’ and we should," Austin said, "but it’s a long time between now and November. We need to be relentless in our pursuit of this. Children are being hurt and we are better people than this. This is not who we are.”  She cast a vision to the protesters of two futures.  “We have a choice: Either we move backward, and fall backward, or we move forward together," she said. "I choose to move forward together.”  Primus Mootry, retired schoolteacher, had a simple stance on the issue.  “This zero-tolerance policy is a complete abomination,” he told the crowd. “Some of those children will be damaged irreparably; they will never heal from this.”  For Mootry, who writes a weekly column in The Herald Bulletin, the greatest worry is the thousands of protesters speaking and marching Saturday would see the action as enough.  “We must not be silent in the face of justice,” he said. “This is America. We still have the First Amendment. Our greatest enemy is silence.”  After the invited speakers spoke, Wood Spencer opened the event up to anyone in the crowd who had something to say.  Wearing a Korean War veteran hat, Anderson resident Jim Jeans stepped up to the front.  “This is all about freedom," he said. "I fought for freedom, and my family died on the beaches of Normandy for freedom, for what it means to come to America. You have to think, without freedom, who will be next in the cages? Will it be your grandchildren or your kids?”
136	adjudicated	4	They gathered together at several locations around Phoenix on Sunday with a simple message: Keep the families of undocumented immigrants together.  The events were planned Sunday and Monday in Phoenix as part of the “Rise Up, National Day of Action” with similar events scheduled in about 130 cities across the country.  Immigrant rights advocacy group Promise Arizona organized the two days of actions, marking El Dia de los Niños and May Day, said David Ayala, state field director.  Sunday's scheduled events in Phoenix included a children’s procession from Immaculate Heart of Mary Catholic Church to Phoenix City Hall and the Arizona State Capitol and a Tent City ceremony recognizing those caught up in immigration raids under former Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio. An overnight vigil was planned at the state Capitol.   Capitol visits with Arizona legislators, a citizenship fair and a day of phone banking are planned for Monday.  RELATED: "Not one more:" Group protests family deportations  A march from the Immaculate Heart church started around 2:30 p.m. Sunday. More than 100 children and parents marched from the church to Phoenix City Hall. They were dressed in white, carried white balloons and held signs that said "Keep families together" and "We rise up."  “The first thing that we want is peace," said Francisco Ocampo, as he walked, wearing an orange mask that resembled a cat.  "What we want is the same equal rights for all the people who come from Latin America. We only want to work in this country. We don’t want to cause trouble.”   Outside Phoenix City Hall on Sunday afternoon, about 70 people gathered with some wearing traditional Native American clothing.  Petra Falcon, executive director of Promise Arizona, said the children of undocumented immigrants are fearful of their parents being deported at any moment.  "They're worried about their mom and dad not being there to pick them up from school. They're worried about their mom and dad not being there at night ... that they might not see them again," she said.   The goal is to send a message of hope and unity, said Claudia Faudoa, an organizer for Promise Arizona.  “That’s why we’re here today. All these kids represent the kids whose parents (are) being separated by the broken immigration system. We want to keep our families together.”  Andrea, 9, didn't want her last name used but wanted to speak on behalf of her family,   "I want people to know we are standing up to injustices," she said as she stood outside Phoenix City Hall with her mother, aunt and nephew. "We don't want families to be separated because that's what's happening since the new president came in."  Late Sunday afternoon, about 40 people gathered on the lawn outside the Arizona State Capitol. Children ran around laughing, playing tag and eating ice cream from an ice-cream trucked owned by an undocumented immigrant. The event was more of demonstration than a protest. They ate dinner on the lawn, and some planned to spend the night.  On Monday, they hope to speak to elected representatives.  Bellem Salgado, 17, was one of the event's organizers. Her mother is an undocumented immigrant, she said, and  "I don't want to come home one day and not have her there."  She longs for a day when she won't have such worries.   "This is the future of America," she said. "We won't stop fighting until we win this."  Later Sunday evening, a group of 17 people held hands as the sun set outside Tent City. They placed a white wooden cross next to the Estrella Jail sign.  Maricopa County Sheriff Paul Penzone announced in April he would be closing the open-air jail made famous under his predecessor, Sheriff Joe Arpaio.  The group bowed their heads.  They prayed to reclaim the land that they said has been the site of abuse and mistreatment of their race.  Even though Tent City, one of their fears, is going away, the community still worries about oppression from recent federal immigration actions.   "There's no safety net now at all here," said Falcon, the executive director of Promise Arizona. "Everybody is vulnerable."
137	adjudicated	3	Parents, sons and daughters, observers, politicians, activists and educators were just some of the people that could be seen Saturday afternoon along West Ludington Avenue, holding signs, clapping, cheering and waving to passersby in the 90-plus-degree heat.   Though the 150 people gathered Saturday afternoon in Rotary Park came from a wide array of backgrounds, they united with the one goal: to speak out against immigration policies that lead to the separation of children from their families.  Ludington joined thousands of communities across the nation in holding Keep Families Together demonstrations to protest current policies, shouting chants like “Love not hate makes America great,” and “Make America moral again.”  The protest was organized by Kate Glancy and Logan Walworth of Ludington.  More from this section Ukrainian deminers check for unexploded devices Ukrainian deminers check for unexploded devices McDonald's still on Russia menus despite shutdown McDonald's still on Russia menus despite shutdown Biden: 'I make no apologies' for Putin comment Biden: 'I make no apologies' for Putin comment “It’s part of the national day of action, which is why we picked (Saturday), and we’re protesting family separations on the border,” Glancy said. “We’re horrified by seeing images and hearing audio tapes of children crying for their parents, so we wanted to make it known that Ludington has a strong contingent of people against those policies.”  The turnout for the short but attention-grabbing gathering was better than anticipated, and Glancy and Walworth said they were elated with the results.  “It’s absolutely more than we had expected,” Walworth said. “It’s even bigger than we thought.”
138	adjudicated	3	More than 200 people marched from the Arizona Capitol to the Madison Street Jail in Phoenix on Monday in observance of International Worker’s Day, also known as May Day.  A diverse crowd that included Latino, black and white marchers, along with representatives of the LGBTQ community, showed their support for immigrants during the march.  “I believe if there’s any man from anywhere in the world that wants to come to place to feed their family, give them the job and let them do it,” said Angelo Brown, 60, who has lived in the Phoenix area for four years.  Brown, who is black, said he felt a responsibility to support Latinos today, noting that some lent support to the Civil Rights movement during the 1960s.  SEE ALSO: What is May Day and how did it get so big?  The march was organized by LUCHA, an immigrant-advocacy group, and Puente Arizona, a migrant-justice organization.  Protesters spoke out on several issues, including opposition to President Donald Trump's call for a border wall, a call for comprehensive immigration reform and criticism of Trump’s deportation orders. Marchers also criticized Tent City, which Sheriff Paul Penzone has said will be closed after operating for more than two decades under former Sheriff Joe Arpaio.  Jose Canchola, 72 (left), and Roberto Perez, 65, participate in the May Day march in Phoenix. Among the marchers was Jose Canchola, 72, a Mexican immigrant who has legal status but is working on becoming a U.S. cittizen. His Social Security income does not meet his expenses, so he pushes a cart and sells fruit popsicles known as paletas.  “I’m here today to support the march and to let people know we are not happy with the wall he (President Trump) wants to build, because he’s going to spend a lot of money and it will be in vain,” Canchola said in Spanish.   “He should use that money to help those in need, the elderly and children,” Canchola added.  The crowd chanted in both Spanish and English, “The people united, will never be divided,” while holding signs and waving flags.  Phoenix resident Mary Parke, 58, came to show support for her husband, who is from El Salvador.  “Immigrants are usually the hardest workers,” Parke said.  Originally from Kansas, Parke came to the Valley in 1986 to work with refugees from El Salvador after many were forced to leave due to civil conflict.   “Here they have the opportunities that maybe they didn’t have before,” Parke said.  The march ended outside the Madison Street Jail, where protesters chanted and danced to Latin music.
139	adjudicated	4	WASHINGTON — "We're here today because there are a lot of parents who can't sing their kids to sleep tonight," Lin-Manuel Miranda told the crowd at Saturday's Families Belong Together rally protesting the Trump administration policy that has separated more than 2,000 immigrant children from their parents after crossing the U.S.-Mexico border.   ADVERTISEMENTSCROLL TO CONTINUE READING "They can't sing their kids lullabies so I'm going to sing a lullaby I wrote," the "Hamilton" creator said before launching into an a capella version of "Dear Theodosia," the musical's ode to the young children of Alexander Hamilton and Aaron Burr. Halfway through, the crowd had joined in, singing, "We’ll bleed and fight for you, we’ll make it right for you. If we lay a strong enough foundation, we’ll pass it on to you, we’ll give the world to you. And you’ll blow us all away."  Backstage after his performance, Miranda told USA TODAY that the family separation policy "flies in the face of everything this administration purports to stand for: family values and keeping families together."  He continued, "They’re coming seeking asylum. There’s a poem that says, ‘The woman who puts her child in the water only does it because it’s worse on land.’ And so to treat them with even more monstrousness? We have to fight for who we are as a country."  Miranda's father Luis, who accompanied him to the event, came to the U.S. in his 20s from Puerto Rico and is now a consultant to the Democratic party, so his family is of one mind on the immigration debate. However, not all Americans are in that situation. What advice does he have for the people who were watching in the crowd or on TV who struggle to discuss the policy with conservative family members who support President Trump's administration and its "zero tolerance" policy without descending into shouting matches?  Celebrities show up for the Families Belong Together march                1 / 12 × Alex Brandon, AP Stars are showing up and speaking out at the Families Belong Together marches across the United States, which protest the Trump administration's "zero tolerance" immigration policy, including Lin-Manuel Miranda who sang during the rally in Washington, D.C. "You have to say, 'What if this was me? What if this was me separated from you? Or you separated from your parents?' You have to put yourself in the shoes of your fellow humans," he advised. "And if you're unwilling to do that, that should say something to you."     This Day in History A video that recaps important historical events that took place on that day. This dynamic video will be automatically updated every day.  Ads By Connatix Illegal immigration:  Separating the facts from fiction  Miranda, who has two young sons himself, said he was at the rally because "I gotta look my kids in the eye when they’re old enough to understand this, and I want to say I was on the right side of history."  Although the president signed a June 20 executive order ending the separations, followed by a June 27 federal court ruling ordering that children under five be reunited with their parents within 14 days and those older within 30 days, Miranda says it's not enough.  More:  Trump administration argues it can detain migrant children and parents together without time limits  "I don't think we're not going to stop marching and protesting until these families are reunited and I don't think they've made any plans for that," he said. "All evidence suggests they haven't. We want transparency and we want to see these families reunited."   After the Justice Department argued Friday that it can detain immigrant families together indefinitely, Miranda says the Families Belong Together movement also wants "absolute humane treatment of those who come seeking asylum. That's one of the promises we export as a country. We need to uphold those values."
140	adjudicated	1	RICHMOND, Ind. – More than 100 people rallied at the Richmond Municipal Building on a sweltering Saturday afternoon to demonstrate against existing, and recently modified, U.S. immigration policies.  About 150 people, many holding signs or donning T-shirts sharing their message, gathered at the city building for the Families Belong Together rally, one of more than 600 around the country slated to take place over the weekend.  The rally, organized by Richmond's chapter of Indivisible, a progressive not-for-profit group, included speeches by everyday citizens, event organizers, many of whom called for change to current laws and treatment of immigrants.  Many also called on attendees t push back against now-changed, high-profile policies of Pres. Donald Trump and his administration that led to the separation of more than 2,000 children from their families after they improperly crossed the U.S.-Mexico border, oftentimes in search of asylum.  The group, which was assembled for about one hour, went on to hold their signs on the corner of North Fifth and Main streets, in an effort to draw attention from passing motorists, bicyclists and pedestrians. 
141	adjudicated	3	Immigrant and workers rights advocates, fueled by anger over President Trump’s policies, staged raucous May Day protests Monday that attracted thousands of people in cities in the Bay Area and around the nation.  While May Day usually inspires throngs of loud voices, Monday’s crowds were especially invigorated by the Trump administration’s priorities, particularly against undocumented immigrants.  “It’s our duty to unite together,” said Yadira Sanchez, 26, one of hundreds of demonstrators who blocked the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement headquarters in San Francisco’s Financial District. “There’s growing momentum. People are angry and upset.”  After circling the streets around the ICE building, the protesters marched down Clay Street to Justin Herman Plaza. By noon, the crowd had swollen to several thousand. Protesters began marching west, down the middle of Market Street. Traffic stalled and police held back cars on side streets.  Shoulder to shoulder at the front of the throng were San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee and San Francisco supervisors Jane Kim, Katy Tang and Ahsha Safai, directly behind a banner proclaiming “Unidos Somos la Fuerza” (”Together We Are Strong”).  128 Veronica Gonzalez (left) and Miriam Cuevas (right) cheer as they protest immigration rights and fair pay outside of the U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services building on Sansome Street in San Francisco, California, on Monday, May 1, 2017. 1 of 128Veronica Gonzalez (left) and Miriam Cuevas (right) cheer as they protest immigration rights and fair pay outside of the U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services building on Sansome Street in San Francisco, California, on Monday, May 1, 2017.Gabrielle Lurie/The Chronicle At Civic Center Plaza, the crowd lay down on the scant patches of green, gulping water and slurping frozen treats, while speakers took to a small stage and Latino rappers did their thing.  “Today is a labor day and an immigration day,” said Yemeni expatriate Ahmed Abosayd, a vice president of the Service Employees International Union local chapter.  Abosayd, whose son, Mustafa, was detained at San Francisco International Airport in the opening hours of the first version of Trump’s travel ban in February, urged the crowd to “give a message to Donald Trump: No ban, no wall.”  In past years, protesters seemed to represent many causes. This year, labor unions, immigrant advocates, teachers and environmentalists coalesced around a single anti-Trump message.  In Oakland, a few dozen protesters gathered at the Alameda County Administration building. Four demonstrators were arrested after chaining themselves to the front of the building.  Demonstrators called on the county Board of Supervisors to “rein in the sheriff” and stop the agency’s cooperation with ICE.  “By connecting the fight for immigrants with the fight against police militarization, people in Oakland are standing together,” said Mohamed Shehk, a 28-year-old organizer with the Oakland Sin Fronteras activist group. “People are galvanized — they see a need to organize and resist.”  In all, about 100 demonstrators gathered in the plaza in front of the administration building a couple blocks from Lake Merritt, some with babies, dogs and bicycles in tow. It was a diverse coalition that included Asians for Black Lives, Critical Resistance and Third World Resistance.  “We’re just out here to demand the Board of Supervisors stop their reliance on military policing — specifically with Urban Shield,” said Woods Ervin, 34, of Oakland, referring to the police training program founded by Alameda County Sheriff Gregory Ahern in 2007.  Thousands of protesters rallied in downtown San Jose, where some buses were rerouted and many businesses were closed. Mayor Sam Liccardo welcomed the marchers and vowed to “celebrate our community as a welcoming and inclusive place for our immigrant neighbors ... in contrast to the rhetoric emanating from Washington.”  Other protests were being organized by the California Teachers Association. The events were expected to put a strain on substitute teacher rolls.  By early in the evening, thousands of people were still marching in Oakland, having made it deep into the city's Fruitvale neighborhood before switching course to the north, marching toward Lake Merritt.  Among the masses was 68-year-old Roy Wilson, an Oakland resident since 1998 and the executive director of Oakland's Martin Luther King Jr. Freedom Center, a group that builds civic engagement amongst local middle and high schoolers.  Wilson was opposed to a number of things: Trump in general, cutting back environmental regulations and the like.  "We the people don't understand, don't care, or don't know what it means," he said, referring to America's status as the most powerful country in the world and how the president is changing things, changing fast.  Dropping sweat and hoisting a sign with three students, Wilson, asked if he was tired after marching since early afternoon, didn't skip a beat.  "Tired?" he said. "I'm feeling great."
142	adjudicated	3	About 300 people marched in Riverside on Monday, May 1, demonstrating against President Donald Trump’s actions against undocumented immigrants and other groups.  They marched for LGBT rights, called for fair wages, and rallied in support of Black Lives Matter, refugees and immigrants.  “What do we want? Justice! When do we want it? Now!” and “Undocumented, Unafraid!” were among their rallying cries. They held signs, reading, “ICE out of California” and “Resist.”  The Riverside march, which began at Fairmount Park and ended at Riverside’s main library downtown, was one of many across Southern California and the nation in honor of May Day.  Selfa Castro of Riverside took the day off to bring her 5-year-old twin daughters to the rally. She used be undocumented, she said.  “It’s daily stress. You’re worried, and it’s like you are preparing for your life to change in any moment,” she said.  Castro said it’s important that her daughters attend the rally to be around a culture of solidarity.  May Day March-2 May Day marchers make their way through downtown Riverside on Monday, May 1. May 1 is celebrated as an international day honoring workers. May Day rallies are typically held to show support for the rights of workers and immigrants. Many people take the day off work, and some businesses close for the day.  Trump named the first of this month as “Loyalty Day,” a designation made by his predecessors for decades. However, he’s adopting his own definition of “Loyalty Day,” telling Americans to mark Monday by celebrating their individual liberties, limited government, and human dignity.   He recommended that people fly flags over government buildings and recite the Pledge of Allegiance.  In Riverside, the march, which included a number of Inland Empire groups, was peaceful with no arrests. Protesters marched mostly on sidewalks. There were no visible signs of Trump supporters or other counter-protesters.  Protesters stopped at Riverside City Hall to demand council members designate Riverside a sanctuary city. Councilman Andy Melendrez made an appearance, telling marchers that there has not been enough council support to make such a designation. He said the issue is being discussed in the Human Relations Commission and he urged marchers to make themselves heard.     “We need you to come out,” Melendrez exhorted the crowd.  Demonstrators criticized city elected officials for not marching with them, and also stopped outside Riverside’s Robert Presley Detention Center to shed light on an inmate hunger strike.  Inland groups marching in Riverside included the Pomona Economic Opportunity Center, Mi Familia Vota, and the Latina/Latino Roundtable of San Gabriel Valley and Pomona Valley.  In Los Angeles, the May Day rally drew tens of thousands of demonstrators, including a number of Trump supporters. Some marchers wore masks and handkerchiefs over their faces. At least one person was arrested for burning a small American flag, police said.  The Inland Coalition for Immigrant Justice has organized May Day rallies since 2006, when protesters across the nation called for immigration reform in response to a bill that criminalized undocumented immigrants. More than 10 years ago, thousands marched from Ontario to Pomona,  rallying for justice for immigrants.  This year, the coalition’s May Day platform was aimed at bringing attention not just to immigrants and workers, but to women, youth, and the LGBT community. The rally was inspired by the women’s marches that took place a day after Trump’s inauguration.  Romeo Pagdilao, who helps organize Filipino youth and students in the Inland Empire, said it’s important for communities to unite in the Trump era.  “We have to struggle alongside each other and educate each other on the experiences of our own people,” Pagdilao said. Only then will we win.”
143	adjudicated	4	DANBURY — Some 150 people marched through downtown Monday afternoon demanding justice and better treatment of immigrants, a rebuke to President Donald Trump’s crackdown on immigration.  The march began at the Hispanic Center of Greater Danbury on Harmony Street and ended with a rally at Kennedy Park.  Many marchers held handwritten signs bearing messages like “Love Thy Neighbor” and chanted phrases such as “No hate in Hat City” and “Undocumented, unafraid.”  All the stories, all the time Unlock News Times for 99¢ SUBSCRIBE “There’s a lot of hate going on right now,” said Rocio Perez, 35, of Danbury, who moved to the United States from El Salvador 12 years ago. “People need to know immigrants aren’t here to be hated but to be a vital part of this community.”  The Danbury event was part of a nationwide day of action calling for better rights for immigrants and workers. It was held on May Day, also known as International Workers’ Day, when union members around the world traditionally march for workers’ rights. But May Day has become a rallying point for immigrants in the United States since massive demonstrations were held in 2006 against a proposed immigration enforcement bill.  In recent years, immigrant-rights protests shrank as groups diverged and shifted their focus to voter registration and lobbying. Larger crowds were expected to return this year, however, as immigrant groups joined with Muslim organizations, women’s advocates and others in opposition to the president’s policies.  Among Monday’s speakers was Glenda Armstrong, president of the Greater Danbury NAACP.  “As the oldest civil rights organization in this country, we the NAACP stand today and every day for civil rights for all people,” Armstrong said.  In his first 100 days, Trump has aggressively pursued immigration enforcement, including issuing executive orders banning travelers from six predominantly Muslim countries and starting work on a border wall. The government has arrested thousands of undocumented immigrants and threatened to withhold funding from jurisdictions that limit cooperation between local and federal immigration authorities.  More News Police: Man had loaded gun on New Fairfield school grounds  Alex Jones faces $25K daily fine for skipping Sandy Hook...  In February, dozens of Danbury businesses closed during a similar national strike. Monday’s May Day rally in Danbury was organized by several groups, including CT Students for a Dream, Danbury Justice Network, AFT Connecticut and more.  “In these times, we all have to stand together against all of these attacks against members of our community,” said Mike Dobsevage, 40, of Bethel, who attended the rally. “A lot of undocumented immigrants are living in extreme fear. This is a strong message against Trump’s policies.”  Before the event, Angelica Idrovo, who led the march, demanded clarity from Mayor Mark Boughton about the city’s level of cooperation with federal immigration authorities.  “Everyone deserves rights,” said Idrovo, an undocumented immigrant who moved to Danbury from Ecuador in December 2009.  “We feel terrorized, she said. “I’m here for the community that cannot come out of the shadows.”
144	adjudicated	4	Residents of New Haven, Stamford, Danbury and Bridgeport experienced a “Day Without Immigrants” on Monday, May 1, as locals took to the streets to call for permanent protection for the 11 million undocumented workers in the United States.  Immigrants, families, workers and business owners gathered together on International Workers’ Day to join a national strike intended to show that the country runs on immigrant work. New Haven’s strike was organized by a coalition of local activist groups that included immigrants rights groups Unidad Latina en Acción and JUNTA for Progressive Action.  The day began with over 450 congregating on the New Haven Green at 4:30 p.m. Organizations including Planned Parenthood of Southern New England, Connecticut Shoreline Indivisible and Food Not Bombs set up information booths on the Green while local artists performed for the crowd.  “We are here to advocate for immigration reform. It is the only way we are going to save lives,” Gini King, a volunteer with Shoreline Indivisible, told the News.  Present at the event was Luis Barrios, a father of four U.S. citizens who is facing deportation on May 4. Barrios has lived in Connecticut for 25 years and has no criminal convictions. He was apprehended by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement when police arrested him in 2011 for driving a car with a broken tail light. He now faces deportation back to Guatemala, where several of his family members have been murdered in recent years due to political unrest and violence.  He, along with several other immigrants, joined the walk this Monday, believing it to be an important step towards securing a safer future, according to the event’s press release.  “This May Day Strike is the first in a series of national strikes and boycotts that will intensify,” said ULA co-founder John Lugo in a press release. “After years of broken promises from politicians, we have woken up to the reality that only we can protect our communities. When we go on strike, when we divest from the banks and businesses that are exploiting us, this country will not take us for granted. We will make our families safe.”  Following the rally, over 20 community organizations then marched to the Fair Haven neighborhood, where some immigrant business had shut down for the day in protest. These organizations included ULA, Junta, Connecticut Students for a Dream, Showing Up for Racial Justice and People Against Police Brutality.  The route of the march was purposeful, community organizers told the News. They first visited a nail salon where workers are currently owed unpaid wages, then continued on to a bank that funds oil pipelines, which community organizers say are exploiting undocumented immigrants and putting them in dangerous working conditions. They then continued onto the site where Malik Jones was killed by police 20 years ago. 21-year old Jones was killed by a white police officer from East Haven who reported that Jones’ car was moving erratically and at a high speed. When Jones pulled into an empty parking lot, his car was boxed in by police vehicles, and was shot repeatedly at close range. The event was considered a landmark case of police brutality and caused outrage from political, academic and religious groups.  Organizers highlighted that the march was also meant to emphasize a historical, systemic divide between immigrant and colored communities and figures of authority. The march ended at the Fair Haven neighborhood, the site of a 2007 ICE raid that led to 30 arrests.
145	adjudicated	1	Hundreds of workers, business owners and families have rallied in five Connecticut cities to support immigrants' rights.   Monday's "Day Without Immigrants" event in Stamford, Danbury, Bridgeport and New Haven was among similar demonstrations held across the country to mark May Day, a traditional day for workers' rights demonstrations.  Some immigrant-owned businesses shut down for the day as part of the protest.  Politicians and hundreds of Connecticut residents attended a "Here to Stay" immigrants' rights rally in Hartford on Saturday. Gov. Dannel Malloy, Lt. Gov. Nancy Wyman, U.S. Sen. Richard Blumenthal and U.S. Rep. John Larson were among the attendees and speakers.  President Donald Trump has aggressively pursued immigration enforcement, and the government has threatened to withhold funding from so-called sanctuary cities that limit cooperation with federal immigration authorities.
146	adjudicated	1	Among the many stories shared at the May Day rally in downtown Fort Lauderdale on Monday night was Randi Weingarten's plea for improved workers' rights.  Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, addressed a crowd of roughly 150 people at Bubier Park in Fort Lauderdale, one of several rallies across South Florida in protest of President Trump's immigration policies.   ADVERTISING  "All of us who have been fighting for those things that some call the American Dream — that doesn't happen without a real democracy," Weingarten said.  May Day was originally a celebration of spring, but it has also become a day for activism as it shares the day with International Worker's Day. Monday's rally, dubbed "National Day of Action for Immigrant and Workers," also addressed civil rights, public education reform and affordable health care.    Mary Flores and her three-year old daughter Arianna Barrios participate in the National Day of Action rally for Immigrant and Worker Justice at Bubier Park in Ft. Lauderdale. Carline Jean/Staff Photographer (Carline Jean / Sun Sentinel)  1 / 24 Following a two-hour rally, participants marched down Las Olas Boulevard shouting, "this is what democracy looks like." Trump's name was mentioned numerous times.  Claudia Saucedo, who works as a caterer in South Florida, said she was barely making enough money 17 years ago to pay for basic necessities in her native Argentina. She then heeded her friends' advice and moved to the United States with her four children.  Ad Choices PAID POSTWhat Is This? 2020 Omega Speedmaster Moonwatch Sapphire 311.30.42.30.01.006 Big Box Collector 2020 Omega Speedmaster Moonwatch Sapphire 311.30.42.30.01.006 Big Box Collector 2020 Omega Speedmaster Moonwatch Sapphire 311.30.42.30.01.006 Big Box Collector  SHOPSponsored Content by eBay US "I want to spread the voice, a lot of people don't know about why we are here," said Saucedo, who is undocumented. "Listen to our stories. When I'm finished, tell me if I'm guilty. We do everything to stay in this country, we are not criminals."
147	adjudicated	3	SOUTH BEND — Hundreds of people gathered under tents, umbrellas and bits of shade created by the Marycrest Building along Western Avenue in South Bend on Saturday afternoon.  Because of the excessive heat and humidity, the National Weather Service urged people to limit outdoor activities and to remain inside — and in air conditioning — if at all possible.  But the stories and images of children being separated from parents at the U.S. border by ICE officials were enough to motivate area residents to join in the protest which was duplicated in cities of all sizes across the nation.  They wore special T-shirts and carried signs.  “No human being is illegal.”  “Build bridges, not walls.”  “Families belong together.”  And many more.  They enthusiastically cheered the calls to action by Sam Centellas, executive director of La Casa de Amistad, and other speakers who urged people to get involved by voting and supporting stores and organizations that care about and are helping immigrants.   “Think about the sacrifices that you can make for others, once again with your time, your talent and your treasure,” said Centellas.  Mayor Pete Buttigieg said the sizable crowd was a reflection of the “moral character of the city of South Bend.” The city, he said, was built by immigrants and it will continue to grow based on the hopes and dreams of future immigrants.   “This is not about Democrats and Republicans,” the mayor said, referring to the actions that led to the separation of children from their mothers by ICE. “This is about right and wrong.”  It’s simply not right to treat another human being as if they are not worth as much as another human, said Buttiegieg, adding that people need to send a message to politicians who are supportive of the border policies of the Trump administration.   “We need to separate these politicians from the office they hold,” Buttigieg said, prompting the crowd to chant: “Vote them out, vote them out, vote them out.”  Councilman Oliver Davis urged people to let public leaders to know their feelings about immigration and other issues, especially those who might be detached because they’re serving in Washington.  Vote and get involved.  “This is not who we are,” Indiana Sen. David L. Niezgodski, referring to the border actions. “We are better than this.”
148	adjudicated	4	MIAMI (WSVN) - Rallies in Homestead, Downtown Miami and Fort Lauderdale marked International Workers Day, Monday, as many focused on immigrant workers and their contributions to South Florida.  Hundreds of people gathered at the Downtown Miami rally at 5 p.m., at the Stephen P. Clark Center, to show support for immigration, immigrant workers and oppose President Donald Trump’s immigration policies.  “Coming together to demand the attacks stop on immigrants,” said Helene O’Brien of SEIU chapter 32BJ.  One young girl taking part in the rally in Downtown Miami spoke about her fear of losing her undocumented parents. “Sometimes I have nightmares that ICE will come and take my family away,” she said.  “I will keep fighting for my family because we are here to stay,” she said, before urging other demonstrators to chant with her. “Repeat with me, folks: We are here to stay!”  In Homestead, marchers chanted about a united community on the national day of action for immigrant rights. Dozens gathered at Homestead City Hall with a focus on farm workers.  “We are here, and it’s time for this country to recognize our labor and to give us permanent protection, respect and dignity,” Jose Ruiz, a marcher, said.  The rally comes during a stressful time for undocumented immigrants fearing deportation under the Trump administration.  Archbishop Thomas Wenski appeared at a May Day event at Miami-Dade College.  “Too many people in the community today live in fear,” Wenski said. “This community needs relief; it needs immigration reform that is humane and just.”  At the event, Miami Mayor Tomas Regalado offered immigrant families a symbolic key to the city to welcome them and honor their contributions in South Florida.  “The City of Miami will remain a city that welcomes immigrants,” Regalado said.  A May Day rally also took place in Fort Lauderdale, Monday night.
149	adjudicated	3	Adults and kids danced in the street and chanted in the rain in Immokalee on Monday afternoon during a march celebrating laborers and the working class on International Workers' Day.  Marchers held up signs reading, "My parents are not criminals," "Justice for all" and "Immigrants get the job done."  Lugarda Juan Bidal marches with members of the community through the streets of Immokalee for International Workers' Day on Monday, May 1, 2017.  The demonstrators said they marched for livable wages, decent working conditions and, most of all, respect for a marginalized group that puts food on people's tables, roofs over their heads and maintains lawns and agricultural fields.  "We're marching as one part of a national day of movement and community support," said Leonel Perez, a march organizer. "We're here to unite and keep working and support one another."  Immokalee resident Susana Gomez, 19, got permission to skip work for a few hours to attend the march for herself and her family.  She has been working at a popular Mexican restaurant called Mr. Taco since she was 17 to help her family with their expenses. She's also studying medical administration at the Immokalee Technical College.   "My parents had to work, but I came for them," Gomez said. "We're here to give the message that we're here for good. We're not here to take away. We want to support our families and are doing our best to work hard."  Susana and about 150 others participated in the march, which was organized by the Coalition of Immokalee Workers.  A truck led the demonstrators; organizers on the back of the truck played music and led the marchers in chants.  Live coverage: Workers hit the streets in Immokalee for International Worker’s Day  Residents march through the streets of Immokalee for International Workers' Day on Monday, May 1, 2017. People spilled out onto the street from their homes and businesses to watch the demonstrators go by — waving, whistling and taking photos and video on their phones from sidewalks and street curbs.  A group of Haitian nationals at the front of the marching line danced with signs in their hands to a song in Creole that blared from speakers on the bed of the truck leading them.  A toddler fell asleep in his dad's arms during the tail end of the 2-mile march.  The speeches given by local activists and spiritual leaders before and after the march had more of an assuring tone than a political one.  Miguel Estrada, a pastor at Misión Peñiel in Immokalee, commended the demonstrators for attending the march when there is so much fear in the community about being stopped by law enforcement and taken to immigration detention centers.  "There is some ignorance surrounding why people come to this country," Estrada told the crowd. "People think we want to leave our families behind, our homes, our roots. That's not why we're here. We're here to work and to provide for our families and get them ahead. We should have no fear and nothing to be ashamed of."  Lupe Gonzalo, an organizer with the coalition, marched to fight for her family and to teach her two sons to fight for their futures.   She worked more than 12 years in agricultural fields all over the country after leaving Guatemala and said she knows firsthand the abuses that laborers, especially women, face — sexual abuse, stolen wages, subpar living conditions, discrimination and no protections against any of the abuses.  "We're tired of hate," Gonzalo said. "So we march. If we don't do anything, if we don't speak out or speak up, we give up. We're trying to build a path of respect and dignity for workers in the community. In the future, when I have grandkids and great-grandkids, it's important to me for them to know that they have someone fighting for them."
150	adjudicated	4	More than 150 packed the Vigo County Courthouse steps Saturday evening to speak against current U.S. immigration policies and the separation of immigrant children and their parents along the United States’ southern border.  Hundreds gather at courthouse to protest U.S. immigration policies Tribune-Star/Joseph C. Garza The sound of support: Theresa Ortega turns to acknowledge the sound of a car horn during her presentation during the #FamiliesBelongTogether Rally on Saturday in front of the Vigo County Courthouse.  JCG Many took the opportunity to voice their opinions and tell their stories at the Families Belong Together demonstration as the crowd lingered for almost two hours.  Terre Haute’s rally was just one of more than 700 similar ones that sparked conversations across the nation.  Folks at Saturday’s demonstration railed against President Donald Trump’s “zero-tolerance” policy that has stepped-up criminal prosecutions of people crossing the border without authorization.  After intense scrutiny, Trump signed an executive order June 20 to stop separating children from their parents after being arrested.  On Tuesday, U.S. District Judge Dana Sabraw in San Diego ordered that the families be reunited within 30 days and that children younger than 5 must be returned to their parents within 14 days.  The Trump administration responded Wednesday, however, saying it would have difficulty complying with the timetable set by the court.  But the fact that more than 2,000 children were taken from their parents in the first place sparked rage in many of the rally-goers.  “If you are like me then you are outraged,” Sister of Providence Joni Luna said as she took her turn on the bullhorn. “We can no longer sit idly by and allow our government to rape our country one policy at a time.”  Hundreds gather at courthouse to protest U.S. immigration policies Tribune-Star/Joseph C. GarzaAn impassioned presentation: Ian Bonner-Swedish, right, a student at Indiana State University from Indianapolis, receives a hug from Michael Tingley after Bonner-Swedish shared his view on the families who are separated by immigration policies on Saturday in front of the Vigo County Courthouse.  JCG Luna then shared a story about a time when she wasn’t so open-minded and thought much differently than she does now.  Luna was raised in Texas where she was taught the death penalty was a good deterrent of crime, she said, and that border crossers and asylum seekers were criminals.  “Does anyone see the irony in this?” Luna asked. “I grew up thinking I do not want to be one of them. I am a Mexican-American myself but I looked down on immigrants as a way to feel better about myself.  “Isn’t that what this is all about? We don’t want to be one of them. But since I joined the Sisters of Providence at Saint Mary-of-the-Woods, I have learned that if I am going to call myself a Christian then I must act like one and be Christ-like in the world.”  Luna decries Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ recent use of the Bible — specifically Romans 13’s passage concerning submission to governing authorities — as a way to justify what’s happening at the border, saying God’s demand to love others trumps all else.  “Jesus is very, very clear, if you want to go to heaven there is one thing that you have to do…you have to love,” Luna said. “When the policies don’t share love with others then you know that it’s not right.  Hundreds gather at courthouse to protest U.S. immigration policies Tribune-Star/Joseph C. Garza Come to life, believers: Franciscan Friar Mario Serrano of St. Joseph University Parish talks about the need for Christians to "come alive" during the #FamiliesBelongTogether rally on Saturday in front of the Vigo County Courthouse.  JCG “Jesus also says that there will be many ‘coming in my name like a fox,’ and we have to be smart enough to know the difference. If we live our lives and are doing things with love always, then we know that we’re doing what Jesus wants us to do.”  Theresa Ortega also took a turn on the megaphone, using her time to give examples of how immigrants have bettered the lives of others throughout U.S. history despite the prejudices and barriers they’ve faced along the way.  “I have worked with so many Mexican immigrants in this town that work six days a week with 12-hour days that would seven if they could,” Ortega said. “And I’ve not met a single drug dealer or rapist among them.”  She then used Terre Haute’s Syrian population as an example of what immigrants can achieve if given a chance and helped a little along the way.  “Take a look at what we have right here in Terre Haute. We wouldn’t have half the buildings or half the businesses if were not for the Syrians who came here,” Ortega said. “And not a single one of them is affiliated with ISIS.”
151	adjudicated	4	SOUTH BEND — More than 50 people gathered downtown for a rally Monday as part of the national “Day Without Immigrants,” holding banners that denounced the proposed wall along the Mexican border and wearing T-shirts that read “no human being is illegal.”  “This country has changed the rhetoric against people who are immigrants and from a lower socioeconomic background,” said Sam Centellas, director of the nonprofit La Casa de Amistad, which was one of the rally’s local organizers. “We have to turn it around and turn it positive.”  Centellas called on the crowd at Jon Hunt Plaza to “strengthen inclusion” in the community by speaking up for people, giving their time to help at charities like La Casa and homeless shelters and spending their money at Hispanic-owned businesses.  Local organizers then drove to Elkhart for a march, rally and festival with music and dancing that drew a couple hundred or more people. It's all an extension of May Day protests in major cities around the globe to celebrate workers and push for better working conditions.  “This country cannot function without immigrants,” Dámaras Alarcón read from a printed statement on behalf of Movimento Cosecha (or “harvest movement”), which calls for “permanent protection, dignity and respect for all immigrant workers.”  She was one of two undocumented immigrants who spoke — both are college students who are studying under DACA, or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, a program that allows many undocumented young people to work and continue their schooling in the United States without fear of being deported.  “I struggle with the fact that I would be like everyone here,” Alarcón said, becoming emotional.   Now 23, Alarcón was 8 when she came from Bolivia with her family. She graduated from Saint Mary’s College two years ago with a bachelor’s degree in actuarial science and in June will begin working on a masters degree in business at the University of Notre Dame.  “My American dream is not different than the Hungarians and Polish,” said Luis Gonzalez, 22, who came with his family from Mexico when he was 9 and moved directly to Elkhart. “My dream was born in a valley so poor that there was no electricity.”  He will graduate with a bachelor’s degree from Indiana University South Bend in December.  Lewis Howard, a 57-year-old homeless man who sleeps in parks and where he can, stopped by as the rally started. As a black person, he said, the era feels like the 1960s when “they didn’t want us there.”  “Ain’t no human being is illegal,” he said. “In God’s eyes he made us all equal.”  Many critics argue that they welcome immigrants — as long as they immigrate legally or seek to correct their legal status. Immigrants counter that this country's laws pose overwhelming hurdles to doing so.  The national movement called on immigrants to stay home Monday from school, work and shopping — similar to a “Day Without Immigrants” held this past February to protest policies by President Donald Trump that many perceived to be anti-immigrant.  Jessica Bayer, who’s joined in protests over the past several months — including a trip to the women’s march in Washington, D.C. — came Monday with her 2-year-old daughter, Juniper, “just trying to be a presence in the community for people and missions that I believe in.”  Gary May of South Bend was walking by when he saw the rally.  “This country is based on immigrants,” he said in support. “Just to uproot them and say they don’t matter. … They work for peanuts and they rarely ever complain.”
152	adjudicated	4	MANISTEE — They wore white. They shook their fists in the air. They carried signs reading: "No more children in cages," and "What's next? Concentration Camps?"  In major cities and tiny towns, hundreds of thousands of marchers gathered Saturday across America, moved by accounts of children separated from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border, in the latest act of resistance against President Donald Trump's immigration policies.  Protesters flooded more than 700 marches, from immigrant-friendly cities like New York and Los Angeles to conservative Appalachia and Wyoming. They gathered on the front lawn of a Border Patrol station in McAllen, Texas, near a detention center where migrant children were being held in cages, and on a street corner near Trump's golf resort at Bedminster, New Jersey, where the president is spending the weekend.  Manistee was part of that map too, as nearly a hundred people from across the county showed up to rally at the corner of U.S. 31 and River Street on Saturday evening.    PAID CONTENT  This Mendocino County winery has been making award-winning certified organic wines for over... BY: FREY VINEYARDS "To me, being silent and doing nothing means you're complicit," said one local protester.  Bear Lake's Bill Turner, a former U.S. Marine, said the rally was his first.  "I've never done one of these before, but I just felt like I had to show up and help make a presence," he said. "I'm not a republican, I'm not a democrat, and I'm proud of it. But this president is the worst I've seen. ...  "(His immigration policies) are openly cruel," he said, "and it's just not American. One of the things we can do is take to the streets."  The local rally was organized by members of the Manistee Peace Group and We the People Action Network of Northwestern Michigan. The two groups partnered a year ago to bring the film "The Harvest" to the Vogue Theatre, as well as the following panel discussion featuring former migrant worker Zulema Lopez.  "We believe that immigrants are essential to build a vibrant and growing Manistee County," said Miriam Epskamp of We the People Action Network. "We believe it is possible to have a secure border without treating people inhumanely."  Turner was impressed by the local turnout, which lined both sides of U.S. 31 at the rally location.  "We were here a little before it started, and there was nobody," he said, "but little bit little they came and now we have nearly a hundred. ... I didn't know what to expect, but for a small town in Northwest Michigan, this is an appreciable showing.  "So many people are honking their horns and giving the thumbs up too," he added. "That's encouraging."  Trump has backed away from family separations amid bipartisan and international uproar. His "zero tolerance policy" led officials to take more than 2,000 children from their parents as they tried to enter the country illegally, most of them fleeing violence, persecution or economic collapse in their home countries.  Those marching Saturday demanded the government quickly reunite the families that were already divided.  A Brazilian mother separated from her 10-year-old son more than a month ago approached the microphone at the Boston rally.  "We came to the United States seeking help, and we never imagined that this could happen. So I beg everyone, please release these children, give my son back to me," she said through an interpreter, weeping.  "Please fight and continue fighting, because we will win," she said.  The crowd erupted.  In Washington, D.C., an estimated 30,000 marchers gathered in Lafayette Park across from the White House in what was expected to be the largest protest of the day, stretching for hours under a searing sun. Firefighters at one point misted the crowd to help people cool off.  Lin-Manuel Miranda, creator of the musical "Hamilton," sang a lullaby dedicated to parents unable to sing to their children. Singer-songwriter Alicia Keys read a letter written by a woman whose child had been taken away from her at the border.  "It's upsetting. Families being separated, children in cages," said Emilia Ramos, a cleaner in the district, fighting tears at the rally. "Seeing everyone together for this cause, it's emotional."  Around her, thousands waved signs: "I care," some read, referencing a jacket that first lady Melania Trump wore when traveling to visit child migrants. The back of her jacket said, "I really don't care, do U?" and it became a rallying cry for protesters Saturday.  "I care!! Do you?" read Joan Culwell's T-shirt as she joined a rally in Denver.  "We care!" marchers shouted outside Dallas City Hall. Organizer Michelle Wentz says opposition to the Trump administration's "barbaric and inhumane" policy has seemed to transcend political lines.  "This is the issue crossing the line for a lot of people," said Robin Jackson, 51, of Los Angeles, who protested with thousands carrying flags, signs and babies.  Singer John Legend serenaded the crowd and Democratic politicians who have clashed with Trump had strong words for the president, including U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters who called for his impeachment.  The president took to Twitter amid the protests, first to show his support for Immigration and Customs Enforcement as some Democrats called for major changes to the agency. Tweeting Saturday from New Jersey, Trump urged ICE agents to "not worry or lose your spirit" and wrote that "the radical left Dems want you out. Next it will be all police."  He later tweeted that he never pushed House Republicans to vote for immigration overhaul measures that failed last week, contradicting a post three days ago in which he urged GOP congressional members to pass them.  In Trump's hometown of New York City, another massive crowd poured across the Brooklyn Bridge in sweltering 90-degree heat, some carrying their children on their shoulders, chanting, "Shame!" Drivers honked their horns in support.  NEWSLETTER SIGNUPS Newsletters: Get your news in your inbox MORE NEWS NEWS Manistee Farmers Market moving to new location The Manistee Farmers Market is moving to the Wagoner Center staring Mau 28. NEWS Centra Wellness leader on panel at D.C. mental health... Joseph "Chip" Johnston NEWS Wexford County drinking water PFAS contamination info to... This July 31, 2019 photo shows sewage sludge from the Lapeer Wastewater Treatment Plant in drying beds, where it is being stored until an arrangement is made for permanent disposal, in Lapeer, Mich. State officials ordered Lapeer to stop distributing its sludge for use as farm fertilizer after it was found to contain toxic PFAS chemicals. Experts are raising concerns that sludge spread on agricultural fields around the U.S. could contaminate crops. About half of the 7 million tons of sludge generated each year is applied to farm fields and other lands. "It's important for this administration to know that these policies that rip apart families — that treat people as less than human, like they're vermin — are not the way of God, they are not the law of love," said the Rev. Julie Hoplamazian, an Episcopal priest marching in Brooklyn.  Though seasoned anti-Trump demonstrators packed the rallies, others were new to activism, including parents who said they felt compelled to act after heart-wrenching accounts of families who were torn apart.   Marchers took to city parks and downtown squares from Maine to Florida to Oregon; in Alaska, Hawaii and Puerto Rico; on the international bridge between El Paso, Texas, and Juarez, Mexico; even in Antler, North Dakota, population 27. People braved the heat in Chicago and Atlanta to march.  Some of the demonstrations were boisterous, others were quiet.  Five people were arrested outside an ICE office in Dallas for blocking a road. At least one arrest was made in Columbus, Ohio, when protesters obstructed a downtown street. Light-rail service was temporarily shut down in Minneapolis as thousands of demonstrators got in the way of the tracks. A rally in Portland, Maine, grew so large that police had to shut down part of a major street.  But in Dodge City, Kansas, a 100-person rally led by a Catholic church felt more like a mass than a protest.   In rural Marshalltown, Iowa, about 125 people gathered for a march organized by Steve Adelmund, a father of two who was inspired after turning on the news on Father's Day and seeing children being separated from their families and held in cages.  "It hit me in the heart. I cried," he said.  "If we can't come together under the idea of 'Kids shouldn't be taken from their parents,' where are we?" he asked. "We have to speak out now while we can, before we can't."  Drum beats and horns sounded as thousands of protesters hit the streets of San Francisco.   "We came here to let the president know that this is not acceptable," said San Francisco resident Barry Hooper, who attended with his wife and two daughters.  His 7-year-old daughter Liliana clutched a sign she made, saying, "Stop the separation."  Three thousand miles away in Washington, protesters ended their march at the white-columned Justice Department. They stacked their protest signs, written in English and Spanish, against its grand wooden doors.  "Fight for families," one sign demanded.   In Portland, Oregon, police ordered participants in a march by Patriot Prayer to disperse after officers saw assaults and projectiles being thrown. Some arrests were made.  The problems occurred as two opposing protest groups — Patriot Prayer and antifa — took to the streets. People in the crowd were lighting firecrackers and smoke bombs and police used flash bangs to disperse the clashing protesters.
153	adjudicated	4	Dozens of people in Rowan County joined protests across the country to oppose President Trump's immigration policies.  The people who came out Saturday morning spoke about the importance of keeping families together. That included several local church leaders who said Americans have a moral responsibility to help those who enter our country.  One of the organizers said many of the people entering illegally had no choice.  "Fleeing from horrific situations and really have no options and those of us who have the luxury to speak out should," Nancy Henly said.  ADVERTISEMENT  President Trump signed an executive order to end the policy of separating families at the border, but those in favor of tougher immigration laws say by breaking the law those parents are the ones putting their kids at risk.  One of several members of the faith who attended disagreed with that assessment.  "And we are there to be witnesses of faith and speak against injustice and this is really one of these laws that I believe is very injust because the kingdom of God is for each and every one of us," said Father Arturo Molina  One of the speakers didn't want to be on camera, but said she was kidnapped as a child by her biological father, and she's worried about the effect the separation will have on those children.  ADVERTISEMENT  "I feel like it's going to be the same as it was for me to be scared all the time and looking over my shoulder," she said.  The rallies were organized nationally by progressive group Move On. They were also held in Kentucky in Louisville, Madisonville, Bowling Green, and Pikeville
154	adjudicated	4	KALAMAZOO, Mich. (NEWSCHANNEL 3) – Hundreds of students and immigration advocates demonstrated in downtown Kalamazoo Monday as part of the nationwide May Day movement. They were out demanding justice for immigrants and refugees.  Students from Kalamazoo College and Western marched in Bronson Park with signs and chanted, many students say the attempts to deport immigrant families affects them on a personal level.  “All we’re asking for today is really respect, dignity, protection under the law,” said Emily Demorest.  Demorest is with the organization Cosecha, a national movement to assist undocumented immigrants and their families. She wants undocumented workers in Kalamazoo to know they have a place to turn.  “I have students and their families have been deported,” said Demorest. “They’re up all night, not sleeping, wondering if ICE is going to come to their house, take their families away.”  Jose-Ernesto Lopez is a first generation college student at K-Collee. His parents are undocumented and Lopez says they live in fear every day. He says seeing support for families like his is encouraging.  “It makes me feel really proud and supported knowing that people are starting to realize the efforts that go unnoticed every single day by immigrants,” said Lopez.  “I think events like this are a good place for us to come together around common ground,” said Demorest. “So I hope we continue to push efforts that way in Kalamazoo.”  Historically, May Day is known as International Workers Day, and celebrates workers’ rights and accomplishments.
155	adjudicated	1	Members from Black Lives Matter, the American Civil Liberties Union and others gathered Monday afternoon in protest of President Donald Trump’s aggressive immigration actions. Lansing is one of seven communities in Michigan — and roughly 200 cities across the nation — holding May Day events.  Angela Waters Austin, co-founder of Black Lives Matter in Lansing, says she came to support her neighbors as well as those immigrants and those seeking asylum.  Mario Quintero is an immigrant from Mexico City living in the U.S. illegally. He says many families are suffering and he attended the rally with them in mind.  The White House had no immediate response to the demonstrations.
156	adjudicated	3	RANDY FURST – STAR TRIBUNE People rallied outside the Apartment Shop, the company of landlord Stephen Frenz, in south Minneapolis on Monday. They were protesting what they contend are “unsanitary and unsafe housing.” TEXT SIZE EMAIL PRINT MORE Activists took to the streets Monday in Minneapolis on May Day to take up causes ranging from immigration to school funding and workers rights.  About 300 people, from separate rallies, marched downtown and convened at the Federal Courts building where they demanded fair wages and school funding.  "Build schools, not walls," demonstrators chanted as they wove through downtown.  Julie Manthe, a staff member at Linwood Monroe Arts Plus in St. Paul, joined the Minneapolis Federation of Teachers march to protest the lack of school funding.  "I've seen what cuts to education do to the students, and we need money all over," Manthe said.  Demonstrators held signs that read "no more deportation" and "we love our students."   CARLOS GONZALEZ &#X2022; CGONZALEZ@STARTRIBUNE.COM Demonstrators made their way down 3rd Avenue South in downtown Minneapolis on the way to the City Hall. ] CARLOS GONZALEZ ï cgonzalez@startribune.com - May 1, 2017, Minneapolis, MN, The May Day March and others Downtown Minneapolis Federal Building More Alyssa Castillo and Nina Berglund, seniors at Gordon Parks High School in St. Paul, said they are "concerned students" who also care about school funding. Castillo said she sees her school spend money on "trivial things" like sports, instead of the arts or giving resources to needy students.  "You shouldn't have a mind-set that one person can't make a difference," Castillo said pointing to the crowd. "If we stand together and fight for what is right and what we believe in, then we can use that to actually make a difference."  Charles Thornton, who works three jobs for "little pay," spoke in favor of raising the minimum wage to $15 per hour.  "We want 15, and we want it now," chanted Thornton, who said $15 would mean better housing, newer clothes, and working only one job.  As part of a national "Day Without Immigrants" campaign, some businesses closed along ethnically diverse Lake Street, where "community members will be joining the rally," said a statement from Movimiento Cosecha, a network of groups focusing on immigrant rights.  Cosecha, which means "harvest" in Spanish, also organized a march on Nicollet Mall near 3rd Street, where there was chanting of, "Say it loud, say it here, immigrants are welcome here," from about 20 participants who blocked the entrance to a new immigration office earlier in the day.  "We're trying to change the political climate," said Juan Orjuela, a Movimiento Cosecha organizer and an undocumented immigrant who left Colombia at age 3 for the United States.  Immigrant communities have been especially vocal since Donald Trump entered the presidential race in 2015, when he pledged to take a tougher line on immigration and made building a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border a key pledge in his successful campaign.  At 7 p.m., as demonstrators started to leave, others joined in on a familiar rallying chant coined by civil rights activist César Chávez: "Si, se puede."  Star Tribune staff writer Randy Furst and Jessie Bekker, a University of Minnesota student on assignment for the Star Tribune, contributed to this report.
157	adjudicated	3	Hundreds of Wichitans gathered at city hall to participate in a national rally Saturday.  People came out to the “Families Belong Together” rally in an effort to speak out against the separation of migrant families at the border.   The event was put on by community members and various organizations.   ADVERTISING  The crowd heard from speakers, including city council member Brandon Johnson, as well as people who are immigrants themselves.   “One of my best friends, she’s an immigrant, and I didn’t want her to feel like i was just one of those people who’s just going to let things happen to her without doing anything,” said Lydia Leija. “And so, her along with some of my family members, you know I’m not going to turn my back on people who are looking for a better life.”  “This is important for me because our families have been separated for so many years,” added Claudia Amaro. “And what’s happening right now is just like a result of a lot of silence in our community.”  The demands of the group are to reunite families, end family detention and put an end to the zero tolerance policy.
158	adjudicated	4	May Day rallies in Albuquerque on Monday mirrored the pro-labor, pro-immigrant and anti-Trump themes of rallies across the country.  More than a thousand people came out for the May Day Rise Up ABQ Rally at Tiguex Park, which featured live music, dancing, children’s activities and speakers who addressed what they called assaults on the rights of workers, immigrants and teachers, and oppressive polices coming out of Washington.  About 40 organizations sponsored the rally, including political groups, the American Civil Liberties Union, health care organizations, labor and teachers unions, grass-roots immigrant-led groups and more, said Marco Nuñez, a spokesman for El Centro de Igualdad y Derechos, one of the chief co-sponsoring organizations.  Earlier in the day, a group of protesters from the New Mexico Dream Team stood in a mock jail cell in front of Bernalillo County Metropolitan Court to denounce what the group called “racist, anti-immigrant attacks” by the Trump administration.  advertisement  The Dream Team is a statewide network of immigrant youths and families who are advocating for immigrants’ rights.  Other May Day rallies in New Mexico took place in Santa Fe, Gallup, Hobbs and Portales.  The local and national May Day rallies are part and parcel of International Workers Day events. In the United States, celebrations often pay tribute to labor unions, and in particular the struggle of workers in Chicago who in the late 1800s fought for a 40-hour workweek.  “We’re carrying on a legacy of workers rights,” Nuñez said. “We live in extraordinary times. There are some pretty profound attacks on the immigrant community, who are workers.” And as workers, he noted, undocumented employees in New Mexico contributed $66.3 million in local and state taxes in 2013.  advertisement  “The fearmongering that came out of the Trump candidacy has leapt into his presidency,” he said. “Trump continues amplifying a message that is divisive instead of uniting, and this event today is the antithesis of that.”  The courthouse site of the Dream Team rally was selected because “we have had confirmed cases of community members who have shown up for their court dates and have been detained and picked up by ICE (Immigration and Customs Enforcement), and then secretly deported,” said Yazmin Irazoqui Ruiz, a Dream Team spokeswoman.  “We are speaking against the criminalization of our community and the detentions and deportations of our community, because this is our home and we’re here to stay,” she said.  Protesters carried signs saying “No human is illegal” and “Resist, fight back,” and chanted “undocumented and unafraid.”  advertisement  Ruiz told onlookers they cannot remain apathetic. “You may not agree with the racist agenda of the people who are running our government, but by staying silent and doing nothing you are perpetuating racism, you are perpetuating the criminalization of our people.”  Rebecca Schreiber said she attended the rally “because I support immigrant rights and immigrant justice.”  “I think that immigrants are being scapegoated as the cause of America’s problems, she said.”
159	adjudicated	4	LAKE CHARLES, LA (KPLC) - All across the country today, thousands are rallying together to protest the separation of migrant families at U.S. borders.  ADVERTISEMENT  Here at home, a local group took their protest to the heart of downtown Lake Charles at Lock Park.  Protesters chanted "love not hate, make America great" as they held signs advocating for the Trump administration to put an end to its zero-tolerance policy when it comes to migrant families.  The policy has led to thousands of children being separated from their families at the U.S.-Mexico border and inspired bipartisan criticism. President Donald Trump partially addressed the issue of family separation in an executive order signed June 20, but many feel that the problem is far from being solved.  Indivisible SWLA chairman, Caroline Woosley explained why today's event is so important.  ADVERTISEMENT  "We're one of six groups in Louisiana, one of 35 groups in Texas and we just want to show that immigrants are welcome here. We think they're good people and we had a good policy for many years and we urge this current administration to re-adopt the policy of previous administrations," said Woosley.  Co-founder, Joy Pace said it's all about coming together and showing unity.  "Immigrants are humans and immigration rights are human rights and we all need to bound together; a unified nation is not going to be a divided nation and we really are all about joining together to make that happen."  Around 75-100 people showed up in solidarity at today's event.
160	adjudicated	2	NEW ORLEANS - Hundreds of people hit the streets in New Orleans Saturday in protest of the 'zero tolerance' immigration policy at the nation's southern border.  The policy is said to have resulted in the separation of thousands of children from their families.  "To see someone out here from different backgrounds, different races, supporting the same thing, it's really moving," said Tia Alexander.  The march, which took place in Armstrong Park, was called the New Orleans Families Belong Together march.  Most of those in attendance were protesting the policy. Marches were held in many cities around the country.  "Every single thing that has changed in this country is from protests, demonstrations, standing up and letting your heart be heard," said Leslie Howell.  Santos Canales, an immigrant from Honduras, who said he came to New Orleans to help rebuild the city, said it was encouraging to see all of the people out in support.  "I think we can see the great quantity of people here today. We know that it's not just us."  Not everyone out Saturday agreed with the march. Harold Larose said immigrants need to follow the rules.  "I don't have no problem with them coming in," he said. "We are a country of immigrants, but there has to be some sort of process. They can't just flood the border, then you got a problem. Then you don't know who they are. I'm sure they are nice people running from persecution, but you still got to vet them and process them, and whatever else you got to do."  But most in attendance were in agreement in ending the policy that is separating families.  "I'm a registered Republican, I'm not having this," said Leslie Howell. "This is not what I signed up for."
161	adjudicated	2	Shreveport added its name to the list of more than 700 U.S. cities where protesters staged "Families Belong Together" rallies Saturday to decry the Trump administration practice of separating migrant children from their parents.  People gathered at the Caddo Parish Court House Saturday for the Families Belong Together Vigil and Rally. Some 120 people turned out for a 6 p.m. rally on a sidewalk by the Caddo Parish Courthouse. They sang songs and listened to planned and impromptu speeches, undeterred by temperatures that still were in the high 90s.  "There's no such thing as somebody else's children," one of the speakers, Jennifer Russell, said.  Participants held signs expressing support for children and opposition to federal government immigration practices at the nation's southern border.  "No hate, no fear. Immigrants are welcome here."  "Love thy neighbor."  "We are better than this."  "Make America Moral Again."  "Don't use my taxes for hate."  Hundreds of thousands of people turned out for the many rallies across the nation Saturday: thousands in Washington, D.C., and Denver and other cities, hundreds in Atlanta and El Paso and many more.  Administration officials have said migrant children no longer are being separated from their parents although they insist they will maintain the "zero tolerance" policy of prosecuting every individual who crosses the border. It's not clear whether and how the government will reunite some 2,000 children already separated from their parents.
162	adjudicated	1	Why was there no coverage in the Gazette of the #FamiliesBelongTogether demonstrations across the Valley? It was local and it was newsworthy in various ways. Example: over 1000 people marched in Springfield in roasting temperatures.  The Springfield march represented the combined efforts of Springfield and Northampton organizers, shoulder to shoulder across neighborhoods and languages, united by empathy and care for children and parents separated by the cruel and appalling practices of the current administration.  Example: on the common in Belchertown, 250 people gathered along Route 202, carrying homemade signs like “Don’t mistake your racism for patriotism,” and receiving an abundance of waves, smiles and supportive honks from passing traffic (I saw only one driver “flip the bird”). In this small town of purple politics, it was extraordinary, and inspiring, to have such a large turn-out. It had not been well-publicized, but the people came, because they are horrified and mobilized by the moral crisis happening in this nation. (Please give better attention to Belchertown — you basically blew the coverage of the gun rally and counterrally too — and thank you for printing the letter about that.)  Yet all the Gazette did to note the nationwide mobilization this weekend was post an AP story? There were abundant local angles here revealing our unity amid diversity in increasingly perilous times. Smaller gatherings happened all over the Valley, from Shutesbury to Greenfield. We didn’t need the AP story (because we have the internet); we needed to witness local power, passion, and interconnection. We needed a reporter on the scene. Both these marches I describe, and many others, were on the official national list online.
163	adjudicated	3	NEW YORK/LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Labor unions and civil rights groups staged May Day rallies in several U.S. cities on Monday to denounce President Donald Trump’s get-tough policy on immigration, a crackdown they said preys on vulnerable workers in some of America’s lowest-paying jobs.   Protesters gather at McArthur Park for the May Day protest march in Los Angeles, California, U.S. May 1, 2017. REUTERS/Kyle Grillot Protests and marches challenging Trump’s efforts at stepping up the deportation of illegal immigrants drew crowds by the thousands to the streets of New York, Washington, Los Angeles and San Francisco, with smaller gatherings popping up across the country.  A broad coalition of groups behind the events also took aim at various other Trump policies they saw as discriminatory or xenophobic, including his bid, so far blocked by the courts, to ban travelers from several Muslim countries and temporarily turn away all refugees.  But the primary impetus cited by civil liberties and labor activists was Trump’s strict new immigration enforcement policy - falling most heavily on undocumented workers who toil in low-paying, non-unionized sectors such as fast-food, hospitality, child care and agriculture.  A May Day gathering grew unruly in Portland, Oregon, where a group of black-clad protesters roamed downtown streets in the late afternoon, setting fires, breaking storefront windows, throwing projectiles and vandalizing a police cruiser.  Police, referring to the perpetrators as “anarchists,” said they made more than two dozen arrests.  Nine people were also arrested in Olympia, the state capital in Washington, where protesters threw rocks, bottles and pepper-spray at police officers and broke the windows of downtown businesses, according to a Fox affiliate.  Rallies elsewhere across the country were boisterous but mostly orderly, even festive.  In some cities, immigrant-run convenience stores and other businesses closed their doors in solidarity with the May Day rallies, and many protesters themselves gave up a day’s wages to make their voices heard.  “Money will come back later, but not this opportunity, not this day,” said David Anaya, 44, an illegal immigrant from Mexico, who chose to forfeit the $300 he would have otherwise earned at his job as a welder.  He was one of thousands who gathered at MacArthur Park near downtown Los Angeles for what organizers called a show of “resistance, unity and defiance,” then set off on an animated but peaceful march across town to City Hall.   Slideshow ( 14 images ) A crowd of several thousand also assembled in Washington’s Dupont Circle for a rally ahead of a planned procession to Lafayette Square, across the street from the White House.  ‘NOT AMERICA ANYMORE’  Earlier in the day, 500 protesters marched through midtown Manhattan and rallied in front of offices of Wells Fargo WFC.N and JPMorgan Chase & Co JPM.N. Twelve were arrested, according to a spokesman for Make the Road New York, an immigrant advocacy group that claims 20,000 members.  The two banks were targeted because of their dealings with private companies that have built or manage some immigrant detention centers for the government, according to Jose Lopez, Make the Road New York’s co-director of organizing.  “The messaging for today was to stop financing immigrant detention facilities,” Lopez said.  May Day, also known as International Workers’ Day, has typically been a quieter affair in the United States than in Europe, where it is a public holiday in many countries.  May Day unrest flared on Monday in France and Turkey, where demonstrators clashed with police.  The U.S. protests focused on Trump’s crackdown on illegal immigration as he presses police agencies around the country to assist federal efforts at rounding up individuals sought for deportation and threatens to withhold federal dollars from “sanctuary cities” that do not cooperate.  Retired social worker Christina Reilly Vaccarino, 78, who emigrated from Ireland at age 15 with a green card allowing her to work as a nanny, said she was “disgusted” by Trump’s policies on immigration, taxes and workers’ rights.  “I came to America at a time when everyone in Ireland believed that America is so wonderful, so great. And now, after all these years, to experience this? It’s not America anymore,” she said at an afternoon rally in Lower Manhattan.  Some Trump supporters said they would also turn out on May Day. Activist Joey Gibson said he and other conservatives would travel to Seattle to defend against what he described as communist and anti-fascist groups who have in the past faced off with police in the evening, after the conclusion of the usually peaceful daytime marches.
164	adjudicated	1	Police say they arrested a group of protesters outside a Massachusetts jail during the final part of a day-long series of rallies against immigrant family separation.  Boston police arrested 20 people outside the South Bay House of Correction on Saturday night after more than 100 activists rallied on a stairway entrance into the facility.  The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency detains immigrants who are not in the U.S. legally at the prison.  The day began with Sen. Elizabeth Warren calling for ICE to be replaced with "something that reflects our morality,'' in City Hall Plaza.  Thousands marched from City Hall to the Boston Common where they protested the federal policy of prosecuting people crossing the U.S.-Mexico border illegally that led officials to separate children from their parents.
165	adjudicated	4	Standing by her father's side, 9-year-old Nora Winslow held a sign she made herself in front of the Bristol County Sheriff’s Office on June 30. It was all about sending the message she wrote on her sign: “Keep Families Together.”  It was also the title of a protest attended by more than 150 people in Dartmouth and thousands of others at events throughout the country, organized after weeks of criticism of the practice of separating children and families who had entered the country illegally at the U.S.-Mexico border.  The issue struck a nerve with even the younger participants like Winslow.  “It’s unfair they’re being separated when they are just trying to help themselves,” she said.  According to the protest website, moveon.org, the goal is to send a message to President Donald Trump that he must permanently end the separation of children and families, reunify those already separated, and end the “family internment camps."  Protesters gathered at the sheriff's office, who included locals and many vacationers, agreed on this platform, as they chanted “Keep Families Together,” and held signs reading “All People Deserve Humanity,” “Immigrants Make our Country Safer and Stronger,” “Restore Decency: Vote 2018,” and “This Isn’t The Land of the Free Until They Are all Free.”  Passing motorists on Faunce Corner Road beeped in support of the protesters, one of whom was holding a sign reading “Honk to Abolish ICE.”  The location of the protest was significant, as the Bristol County Sheriff’s Office also runs an Immigration and Customs Enforcement detention center on its Dartmouth campus. The detention center has a maximum capacity of about 220 detainees.  After a period of time on the street, the protesters marched onto the grounds and to the building which is believed to hold the ICE detainees.  “Say it loud, say it clear, immigrants are welcome here,” the group chanted outside the facility.  After about 15 minutes protesting directly outside the detention center, protesters were initially told that they could continue as long as they didn’t disturb those going to visit inmates, but then were ushered back up to the street, before being told to stand on the other side of the road.  Sara Arbour of Taunton said she read the recent article published on The Intercept highlighting allegations of immigrant abuse at ICE detention centers, which specifically cited Bristol County.  The report detailed a specific incident in which a guard at the Dartmouth facility allegedly told a detainee "no one will believe baboon complaints" after the man tried to file a complaint after an officer tried to get him to cage fight another detainee.  “I shared it, and I can guarantee that there is someone in my Facebook network whose friend or family member works here,” Arbour said. “So then you’re either a participant or a witness, and that’s so disturbing to me. They’re participating in the dehumanization.”  Sumaiyea Uddin of Fall River said she was there “to bring families together again and make sure that they’re free.”  She acknowledged Trump said he would bring families together, but they are still incarcerated.  “That’s not America,” Uddin said. “That’s not okay.”  "We’re here because none of us would want to be separated from our children, and it’s traumatic for the children,” said Ron, a protester who did not wish to give his last name.  It was Margo O’Brien's first ever protest. She lives in Switzerland, and was there with her friend Jill Stanzler-Kat  “We happened to be here with friends for the weekend,” Stanzler-Katz explained. “I felt like I couldn’t be just enjoying the weather without doing something today.”  Several members of the Little Compton Sakonet Peace Alliance were there, including Mark Strauss, who saw this protest as part of a history of activism.  “How things changed in the sixties is people became active,” Strauss said. “This is how we ended up with civil rights, this is how we ended the Vietnam War sooner than we would have otherwise. And that’s what’s hopefully starting to happen now. People are beginning to raise their voices and stand out on the street. That’s how it happens.”  Back on the street, the protesters were encouraged by more honks from cars, and replied with cheers while several officers looked on.
166	adjudicated	2	Chants and raised fists flooded Falmouth's Main Street on Saturday, June 30, in solidarity against President Donald J. Trump’s “zero-tolerance” immigration policy that has resulted in the separation of families at the southern border.  Cape Cod Democratic Socialists of America, Move To Remove, the Coalition for Social Justice, and the Falmouth Democratic Town Committee organized the local demonstration, one of many taking place across the nation between 11 AM and 1 PM. About 100 people participated in Falmouth.  Concerned Cape residents gathered at the Village Green, flashing signs at passing cars. Among the messages on the signs were "Reunite Refugee Families," "No One is Illegal," "Keep Families Together" and "Abolish ICE."  The crowd roared whenever their efforts were greeted with a friendly horn honking or a driver flashing a thumbs-up in the air.  Activists then took to the streets, marching down the road and disrupting the flow of foot traffic on sidewalks.  A police officer blocked traffic on Main Street as the chanting protesters swarmed the green at Peg Noonan Park.  The demonstration concluded with 90-second speeches by Rachel K. Rhude of Maya Childcare Incorporated; Joel Paul of Cape Cod DSA; Yuki Honjo of McLane Research Laboratories, Inc; Jarita A. Davis of Engage Falmouth; and additional members of the crowd willing to speak. The speeches centered on family separations; ICE agents; and the 287(g) Agreement, which deputizes the Barnstable County Sheriff James Cummings to act as an ICE agent.  Calls for action were passed out to the crowd, leaving each attendee with a further mission after departure: Call government officials to object to the policies in place and—most importantly—vote.
167	adjudicated	4	CLEVELAND -- Cleveland was one of nearly 100 cities Monday, where the Service Employees International Union held rallies in support of immigrants, including those who are undocumented.  More than 200 demonstrators held a rally at the Free Stamp near City Hall Monday afternoon before marching to Public Square. The event's sponsors included immigrant rights organizations and SEIU Local 1, whose members include janitors, security officers and food service workers.  Mary Kay Henry, SEIU's  international president, said rallies were held in Cleveland and other cities because many immigrant workers and their families are living in fear of deportation.  "Working people are joining our brothers and sisters in communities across the nation to stand up for immigrant families who are forced to live in fear that they will be ripped from their homes and separated from their children," she said in a news release. "Immigrants do the work that our families need and that drives our economy, like caring for our children, the sick and the elderly, and security and cleaning our offices and airports. When they are able to come out of the shadows and fully participate in our communities, it will benefit everyone."  Jose Mendez, an undocumented immigrant, who spoke at the Cleveland rally, agreed many like him are living in fear. Menedez of DREAM Activist Ohio is a Dreamer, the name given to undocumented immigrants, who were brought to U.S. before they were 16, and were covered under an executive order signed by Barack Obama. That order allowed Dreamers to remain in the country and to qualify for work permits. Donald Trump has said he doesn't intend to deport Dreamers, but he has not signed an executive order allowing them to stay in the country.  "I feel it is my responsibility to speak out since our community every day is being targeted and is afraid of repercussions," said Mendez before the rally. "I will not be silenced. "ICE (Immigration and Customs Enforcement) knows who I am, and they know where I live. They can target me anytime, but that won't silence me."  May Day, also known as International Workers' Day, traces its origins to May 1, 1886, when 200,000 U.S. workers went on strike demanding an eight-hour workday.  " Unions have always worked for things like the minimum wage, the eight-hour work day, paid vacation and personal days, the weekend, we understood we were not just getting these things for our dues paying members," said Sandra Ellington, a Cleveland janitor and member of SEIU Local 1, who spoke at the rally. "These things impacted all workers. These gains were not only things in the past though. Unions continue to work to improve the lives of all workers - not just those who belong to unions. We are here today to fight for a better life for everyone."  On Public Square Monday evening, Cleveland's Fight for $15 movement, which is backed by SEIU, held a rally in support of raising the minimum wage to $15. The group had sought to have Cleveland voters decide on raising the minimum wage to $15 in the city, but later withdrew their petition after strong opposition from city leaders and state legislators. Cleveland currently does not have a minimum wage. Ohio's minimum wage is $8.15 an hour.  "May 1 is celebrated around the world as a holiday to honor working people and the rights of all working people to be paid enough to sustain their families," said Anthony Caldwell, spokesperson for the Cleveland Fight for $15 movement, in a news release.  He said black and Latino workers are hurt the most by not raising the minimum wage.  "More than half of Black workers are paid less than $15," he wrote. "Sixty percent of Latinos are paid less than $15."
168	adjudicated	4	PHILADELPHIA (CBS) — Roughly a half-dozen May Day protests converged on City Hall on Monday as part of a collective effort to rally for immigrant rights, low wage workers and much more.  Hundreds of peaceful demonstrators held signs that read “Dismantle ICE,” “No Wall,” “End Racism and “Black Lives Matter.” The diverse group of protesters from all areas in the city included teachers, restaurant workers, undocumented workers, ex-offenders and more.  READ MORE: Philadelphia Police Officer Struck By Suspected DUI Driver In Tacony Hit-And-Run, Police Say “None of us will win, unless we are unified together,” said Erika Almironm who runs Juntos, an immigrants rights group that helped organized the mass protests. She says immigrant businesses shut down, people brought children and took off work to be part of the rally.  “This is one of the first times that I’ve seen people come together on the issue of criminalization, over incarceration, deportation standing side by side and realizing that our fights are one,” she said.  Shani Akilah of Black and Brown Workers Collective says people of color are uniting with the immigrant community.  READ MORE: Nonprofit Luke's Wings Helping Family Members Attend Funeral Of Pennsylvania State Trooper Branden Sisca “We will not allow ICE, we will not allow Trump, we will not allow a system bent on Genocide to take our comrades,” Akilah told the crowd. “This is a new day.”  Undocumented immigrants told stories of raids and deportation. LGBTQ spoke of discrimination and low-wage workers spoke of hardships. Barbara– an airport workers– took the day off to march.  “People need to know what’s going on at the airport and what’s going on in the whole city with all these workers and all these immigrants,” she said. “They are not getting treated fairly.”  Philadelphia police had a strong presence, but said the protests were without incident.
169	adjudicated	4	A dangerous gang culture pervading El Salvador inspired Margarita Harvey to flee to America, eventually settling in York City. Her 27-day journey at age 19, during which she said she nearly died, is something she said she won’t forget. It is her reason for wanting to push for broader immigration policies.  Harvey, owner of Satellite and Multi Services in York City, and her friend Elena Aguilar, owner of Variedades Latinas in York City, both closed shop Monday to protest  anti-immigrant policies. May 1 is considered International Labor Day, which is why local activists decided to join an organized protest at the state Capitol. Among them were immigrant business owners, such as Harvey and Aguilar, arguing against laws that restrict undocumented immigrants from becoming legal citizens.   “I went three days without food and one day without water,” Harvey recalls of her trek. “Those are scary memories.”  At age 24, Harvey married an American, something she said not all undocumented immigrants can do to become a legal citizen. Her suggestion to the government, she said, is to create easier steps for undocumented citizens to prove that they are not criminals and that immigrants are not just entering the country to feed off government handouts.  Aguilar, who came to America 20 years ago from El Salvador as an undocumented immigrant, said she is disappointed that she still has temporary status protection. She pays the government $700 every 18 months to keep that status, and she is not an American citizen.   “We are helping the economy here,” Aguilar said. “We can’t open a business in El Salvador. They just kill people. Gangs manage the place.”  A day of protest: Harvey and Aguilar planned to join other activists after they assembled Monday in front of state Sen. Scott Wagner’s  office on George Street in York City. A  dozen people chanted and walked in front of the Spring Garden Township Republican's office, speaking in Spanish and airing their grievances. Their plans were  to then go to Harrisburg to take part in the statewide rally.   Tens of thousands of immigrants and their allies rallied Monday in major cities, including New York, Chicago and Seattle. Demonstrations also were expected in dozens of smaller cities from Fort Lauderdale, Florida, to Portland, Oregon.  Elizabeth Alex, regional director of CASA,  said York is a “welcoming city,” something Mayor Kim Bracey declared shortly after President Donald Trump’s inauguration.  York City cited as 'welcoming community'  “Many undocumented immigrants are farmers,” Alex said. “I would think as a business owner, (Wagner) would recognize the dissonance between the workforce and the community. We should be working together.”   According to CASA, “Immigrants strengthen our economy by creating millions of jobs every year and running almost a fifth of the small businesses across America. But the Trump administration refuses to back down from their cruel and unworkable policies, even after courts have refused to allow the Trump administration to implement three different policies. Furthermore, taxpayers already spend more money on immigration enforcement than enforcing on all other laws combined.”  Wagner did not respond to a request for comment. His York office said he was traveling.  Mirna Gonzales of York City, speaks as a group of immigrants and advocates protest in front of Senator Scott Wagner's office to denounce his hard line position against immigrants, Monday, May 1, 2017. John A. Pavoncello photo Alex and other state immigration advocates are concerned about PA Senate Bill 10, which requires municipalities to honor protocol when an illegal immigrant is detained, which includes arrests and contacting federal officials.  Under Senate Bill 10, any local agency, municipality or county that refuses to enforce the law will not be eligible for state grants for law enforcement, including purchases of equipment or vehicles for law enforcement, or be eligible to participate in the sale of state surplus property.  Historic day of advocacy: While union members traditionally march  May 1 for workers' rights around the world, the day has become a rallying point for immigrants in the U.S. since massive demonstrations were held on the date in 2006 against a proposed immigration-enforcement bill.  Protesters hold up a sign as they block a driveway at the U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services building in San Francisco, Monday, May 1, 2017. Immigrant and union groups will march in cities across the United States on Monday, May 1, 2017, to mark May Day and protest against President Donald Trump's efforts to boost deportations. The day has become a rallying point for immigrants in the U.S. since demonstrations were held in 2006 against a proposed immigration enforcement bill. (AP Photo/Jeff Chiu) In recent years, immigrant rights protests shrank as groups diverged and shifted their focus on voter registration and lobbying. Larger crowds were expected to return this year as immigrant groups have joined with Muslim organizations, women's advocates and others in their united opposition to Trump's policies.
170	adjudicated	3	NEWBURYPORT – At least 200 people of all ages rallied in Market Square on Saturday morning, hoisting signs and cheering as organizers urged continued resistance to President Donald Trump’s immigration policies that have taken thousands of children from their parents along the U.S.-Mexico border in a recent crackdown against illegal immigration.  Rally organizer Walt Thompson, as well as City Councilor Charlie Tontar – who talked about his immigrant parents – and Newburyport School Committee Vice Chairman Bruce Menin, urged those at the rally to speak out against what they see as inhumane treatment of immigrants – especially children – who have come over the border, in many cases for work or to escape oppressive conditions in Mexico or countries in Central and South America.   There was tension for a few minutes after two men holding Trump-Pence signs arrived and stood along Merrimac Street in front of the Fire House Center for the Arts.  John Parks and Victor Keller held signs and talked with people who came across the street from the rally. Keller said he called police after a woman grabbed his large Trump sign and tried to bend it.  By noon, at least seven police cruisers arrived with more than a dozen officers from Newburyport, Newbury and state police. Police stood by as the large crowd on the bullnose chanted in support of immigration.   The rally was one of hundreds across the country Saturday, all coordinated to send a message to the White House. Coverage of children being held in scores of detention centers has sparked outrage in many communities across the country, leading to the protests Saturday.  In Boston, police said they arrested a group of protesters outside the South Bay House of Correction during the final part of a daylong series of rallies against immigrant family separation. Boston police arrested 20 people Saturday night after more than 100 activists rallied at an entrance to the facility.  The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency detains immigrants at the prison who are not in the U.S. legally.  The day began in City Hall Plaza with U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren calling for ICE to be replaced with “something that reflects our morality.”   Thousands marched from City Hall to Boston Common, where they protested the federal policy of prosecuting people crossing the U.S.-Mexico border illegally that led officials to separate children from their parents.  More than 600 marches drew thousands of people across the country, from immigrant-friendly cities such as Los Angeles and New York City to conservative Appalachia and Wyoming under the banner Families Belong Together, according to The Associated Press.  Immigrant advocacy groups said they were thrilled — and surprised — to see the issue gaining traction among those not tied to immigration.  “Honestly, I am blown away. I have literally never seen Americans show up for immigrants like this,” said Jess Morales Rocketto, political director of the National Domestic Workers Alliance, which represents nannies, housekeepers and caregivers — many of whom are immigrants. “We just kept hearing over and over again, ‘If it was my child, I would want someone to do something.”’  The rallies received money and support from the American Civil Liberties Union, MoveOn.org, the National Domestic Workers Alliance and The Leadership Conference.  But local organizers are shouldering on-the-ground planning, many of them women relying on informal networks established during worldwide women’s marches on Trump’s inauguration and its anniversary.  Tyler Houlton, a spokesman for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, welcomed interest in the immigration system and said only Congress has the power to change the law.  “We appreciate that these individuals have expressed an interest in and concern with the critical issue of securing our nation’s borders and enforcing our immigration laws,” Houlton said. “As we have indicated before, the department is disappointed and frustrated by our nation’s disastrous immigration laws and supports action.”
171	adjudicated	2	Two groups demonstrating for International Workers' Day nearly came to blows in front of City Hall on Monday in the culmination of a fight that began on the internet.  On one side, a man in a hockey helmet pawed the ground on all fours while over 40 others with homemade shields, hockey sticks, flag poles or gas masks shouted.  Across the lawn, a smaller, black-clad group chanted, clanking their Louisville Slugger baseball bats together. They began to move toward each other, but before they met, Metro Police swept in to create a barrier of bicycles.  When Nashville Antifa, a local anarchist group, organized the workers solidarity rally, Brandon Curran, of Rutherford County, and Michael Graham, of White House, Tenn., started planning a counterprotest.  "We're here simply to make sure that, if they want to protest and not mess stuff up, we don't have a problem with that," Graham said. "Because for us to try to come and stop it would mean we're turning into the very thing we hate, which is them."   Both men carried guns in holsters, something they said they always do.  Threats had been pouring across the internet in the weeks leading up to the May Day event. One man even made death threats, holding grenades and a gun up to the camera. He encouraged others to kill the antifascists. But Curran said they reported that to police.  Metro Police confirmed they were aware of the video.  "He was advocating for hurting people," Curran said. "And we reported that crime."  A member of Nashville Antifa turns and yells back at a counterprotester in the middle of Charlotte Avenue. The argument was broken up by police. He said seeing the smashed windows and fires at a protest in Berkeley, Calif., made him want to organize this protest to try and stop it from happening in Nashville.  The Nashville Antifa protesters said they were just there to show their solidarity with the working class.  Often called May Day, International Workers' Day has its roots in Chicago in the 1880s. It was started as a way to agitate for the eight-hour workday.   After facing off for nearly two hours, Nashville Antifa left for another demonstration, chased by the counterprotesters chanting "Trump" and singing the Pledge of Allegiance. Police continued to escort both groups until they dispersed.  In South Nashville and the rest of the state, Nashvillians participated in marches and a general strike. Workers' Dignity and Music City Riders United organized a march and celebration as part of the national "Day Without an Immigrant."  Around 200 demonstrators called for a living wage, an end to wage theft, affordable housing, better public transportation and for there to be not one more deportation. They also demanded the public divest from police agencies and invest in communities.   Fanne Lopez, a construction worker in Nashville, said she is marching for all the same reasons, but she said that she wants Nashville to be a better place for immigrants where they can have equal rights.  "We want Nashville to become a sanctuary city," she said in Spanish. "We want to receive fair wages."  She said that the majority of those who work in for the construction and landscaping companies responsible for the city's growth are Hispanic.  Black Lives Matter Nashville, the Justice for Jocques Coalition, UAW Local 737 and the Central Labor Council, among others, also had a presence at the demonstration.  The march, which began in Coleman Park, was peaceful.
172	adjudicated	3	Wearing red in solidarity and waving provocative signs, protesters gathered in downtown Houston mid-day Monday for the first of two gatherings aiming to show support for workers and immigrants.   The first gathering, starting at 11:30 a.m. at Sesquicentennial Park, drew police as the crowd snaked through the streets to City Hall to "show the Trumps of the world what real power looks like," according to the event's Facebook page.   "Rights are not given," the post notes. "They are won."  MUTUAL FIGHT: Texas police chiefs band together against 'sanctuary cities' bill  A second May Day rally - organized by Houston Socialist Movement, Latino Inmigrantes Triunfadores and a slew of other protest groups - is slated for 5:30 p.m. at Guadalupe Plaza.   "This rally will be different from other May Day events in Houston," organizers promised in a press release.  "This rally is being organized by workers independently of the Democrats and Republicans, and no elected officials or politicians will be on the platform. Participants will also voice fundamental criticism of the entire political system and capitalism in general."  CAPITOL RALLY: Protesters stage sit-in at governor's office in Austin  The evening rally-goers will demand an end to deportations, a $15 minimum wage, union rights and an end to capitalism. Story continues below       May Day, which is also known as International Workers' Day, has sparked nationwide protests in the past - and this year is no exception.   Even as Houstonians gathered in solidarity, crowds came together - sometimes clashing with police and sparking violence - in cities from Istanbul to Paris to Washington DC.   Scroll through the gallery above to see May Day protests from around the world
173	adjudicated	4	Northborough/Westborough – Rallies were held in Northborough and Westborough June 30, as part of a nationwide initiative protesting the Trump administration’s policy of separating migrant children from their parents as the families illegally enter the United States via the Texas border.  Although President Donald Trump, after a fierce public outcry, changed his mind, reversing that policy on June 20, and ordered that families can no longer be separated, approximately 2,000 children have still not been reunited with their families. Organizers hoped the rallies on June 30, which were held all over the country, would put pressure on the administration to rectify that situation as quickly as possible.   Northborough organizers Patrick Brady, Lindsay Brady and Lindsay’s mother Leslie Williams, had only 10 days to organize the event after asking themselves what they personally could do to advocate for keeping families together.  “We thought about marching in Boston or Washington, D.C,” said Williams, “but we asked ourselves, ‘Why not Northborough?’”  They worked out the logistics with town officials but noted they really had no idea of what the participation was going to be like.  That morning about 150 peaceful protestors of all ages participated in the rally which was held at Ellsworth-McAfee Park.  The organizers thought the turnout and the energy at the event was “incredible”. The summer heat didn’t deter people from lining the street outside of the park area displaying signs and taking shade when needed under the pavilion.  “People are starting to see that coming together in person gives you hope and makes you feel less alone,” said Williams.  Participant Judy Sugarman agreed.  “Being a part of today’s well organized and attended get together and demonstration and being with others who feel the same way I do, helped to lift my spirits,” she said. “Every day of this administration has been frustrating and depressing. Speaking up, voicing my opinion, fighting for others has been important to me- even more so now. Standing on Route 135 with others, holding signs, having drivers beeping their horns, and waving, gives the feeling that others agree. What is most important is to keep going, not give up, get eligible voters to register and then vote in November.”  Lindsay Brady said the expectation is to have another gathering later in the summer and in the meantime use social media as a means to keep the conversation going.  In Westborough, protesters from as far as Sturbridge, Mass. filled the downtown rotary. The latest of several recent protests in town held on the rotary, organizers said they were proud to be bringing politics to a local stage.  The protest, which included men and women of all ages, as well as children holding signs and peacefully waving to passersby, lasted throughout the day and came as the culmination to weeks of work by Cristin Hodgens and her group, Westborough WAVE of Women.  “I couldn’t sleep at night at the thought of children being separated from their families,” she said. “So I had to do something.”  Hodgens has been a fixture of political activism in Westborough and elsewhere in Mass. ever since the nationwide Women’s Marches in January 2017 reintroduced her to activism. After attending the march herself, Hodgens returned to Westborough with a sign and quickly started holding it in the rotary.  Hodgens said she was happy with the overall outcome of the protest June 30. As she and her fellow demonstrators smiled and waved at passing cars, some drivers responded angrily, with at least one shouting “lock em up” in reference to the immigrant families, according to Hodgens. But many more honked, waved back, or even joined Hodgens on the rotary later in the day.  Going forward, she and other organizers are eager to remain locally visible and vocal in a time of intense political turmoil.  “I would like to think that I would take care of my neighbors, that my neighbors would take care of me,” she said. “I think it’s important to have local conversations about politics because that’s where most politics are shaped.”
174	adjudicated	1	May Day protests turned violent in several cities around the world Monday as “anarchists” forced police to cancel permits and arrest dozens of protesters in a day meant to celebrate workers and the gains made by labor advocates.  Police in Paris, Istanbul, Portland, Seattle New York, Seattle Washington were on high alert throughout the day as a rally in one city was marred by clashes with pro-Trump and anti-Trump marchers – and police in another city reported Molotov cocktails being thrown at officers.  What is May Day, anyway?  Here is a look at how May Day played out across the globe:  Portland, Oregon Protesters march through the streets in Portland, disrupting traffic. Protesters march through the streets in Portland, disrupting traffic. Don Ryan/AP Police canceled the permit for the demonstration after “anarchists” began throwing projectiles and incendiary devices, and causing unsafe conditions for protesters, the police Twitter account said.  Incendiary devices thrown at police “included fireworks, smoke bombs and Molotov cocktails,” police tweeted.  The Portland Police Bureau said in a statement that officers arrested 25 people after the march “devolved into a full-scale riot with random acts of vandalism .”  “Various fires were set in the street and in garbage cans, a police car was spray-painted and vandalized, and there were attempts to set at least one business on fire. Numerous projectiles were thrown at or launched at police and firefighters including rocks, bottles, ball bearings, fireworks, smoke bombs, and road flares,” the bureau said.  Seattle Seattle Police issued a dispersal order after a May Day protest in the city’s Westlake Park area, citing “increasing tensions and several fights.”  CNN affiliate KIRO 7 News reported that the fights were between pro-Trump and anti-Trump marchers.   According to the Seattle Police Department’s Twitter feed, officers made five arrests, the first for rock throwing, the second for unlawful possession of a weapon and the third and fourth for obstruction.  The fifth suspect was arrested for misdemeanor theft – stealing another demonstrator’s flag, the department said.  Olympia, Washington May Day protests in Olympia turned into what police called a riot.  Nine people were arrested on felony riot charges after a group in downtown Olympia began throwing rocks and smashing windows on local businesses.  They targeted news crews, restaurant patrons and used slingshots and pepper spray against officers, police said.  Olympia Police Chief Ronnie Roberts told reporters that a group of approximately 75 protesters split off from the larger, peaceful group around 6:30 p.m. local time near the downtown intersection of 4th Ave and Jefferson Street, and began to hurl projectiles at officers.  Nine officers were hit with what Roberts described as rocks or marbles. He said many of those arrested were carrying pipes and slingshots inside backpacks and that five businesses were damaged during the protests.  The mob began to split into several groups until a large number of officers arrived using flash bangs, and urged people to leave before they were arrested.  New York A small crowd of protesters that organized at Grand Central Station in New York marched west near Bryant Park. They carried signs with slogans, some reading, “Every species has a right to freedom” and “We’re here, we’re queer, we’re fabulous.” The group then marched Macy’s Herald Square and began chanting within the department store.  In a separate protest, a dozen people were arrested outside the Park Avenue office of JPMorgan Chase & Co. for civil disobedience, said New York Police Department Sgt Lee Jones. The protest, dubbed “Corporate Backers of Hate,” targets companies who have cultivated ties to President Donald Trump’s administration and stand to profit off his policies, said Daniel Altschuler of Make the Road New York, which helped organize the protest.  At least four members of the group, which focuses on workers’ rights, were among those arrested.  A NYPD spokesman later told CNN that a total of 32 protest-related arrest were made. Most of those arrested were charged with disorderly conduct, he said.  Istanbul Video shows police firing rubber bullets and detaining protesters in Turkey’s largest city as demonstrations became violent. At least 165 people have been detained during protests, according to the city’s police headquarters.  There was a heavy police presence in the major squares across the city. After authorities canceled celebrations in Taksim Square, a traditional rallying point, thousands of protesters gathered in the city’s Bakirkoy district. In addition to supporting workers’ rights, marchers gathered to support democratic rights, human rights, freedom of expression and rule of law – rights which are seen to be shrinking in Turkey.  Paris Just days before a French presidential election that pits far-right leader Marine Le Pen against pro-Europe centrist Emmanuel Macron in a runoff, the traditional May Day workers’ march took place in Paris alongside an anti-Le Pen protest.   Skirmishes broke out, and it didn’t take long before police fired tear gas at protesters. Reports are emerging that police officers have been injured.  Brazilian tourist Joseane Duque says she and a friend witnessed a police officer hit a man, and she saw tear gas and heard a loud bang.  Artist Mehmet Ali Uysal, who participated in the demonstrations, said they were mostly peaceful, though he saw some violence, including two motorcycles that were set ablaze.  Havana A large crowd gathered in the Cuban capital’s Revolution Square, at the base of the memorial honoring writer and poet Jose Marti. A protester with a US flag briefly interrupted the day’s celebration and was dragged off by government security officers.   Moscow Hundreds of thousands showed up in the Russian capital to celebrate International Workers’ Day, according to state-run media. In Red Square, people waved Soviet and Russian flags, as well as banners supporting President Vladimir Putin’s United Russia party. “Decent work, wages, and life” is a common theme at the gatherings.  People also took to the streets in Yakutsk, Khabarovsk, Vladivostok, Kazan, Novosibirsk and Salekhard, as well as in Siberia and the Urals and Volga regions, state-run media reported.  St. Petersburg, Russia Demonstrators focused their ire not on any labor issue but on a January decision to return a cathedral, one of the city’s most famous landmarks, to the Russian Orthodox Church, according to Radio Free Europe. Protesters say the church is gaining too much influence and want the cathedral to remain a museum.   Also, according to an Instagram user, anarchists and members of the Russian Socialist Movement marched, chanting, “Our movement is resistance.”  Tbilisi, Georgia A gathering of trade union and student organizations converged outside Georgia’s parliament building with a group of women’s right activists demanding better working conditions and an end to discrimination, Radio Free Europe reported.  Pristina, Kosovo The Union of Independent Trade Unions gathered, demanding the government provide better conditions for private-sector workers, which they said can be regarded as slaves at some workplaces, according to Radio Free Europe.
175	adjudicated	3	PITTSFIELD, Mass. — After years of living under Pol Pot's reign in Cambodia, Sopheap Nhim's family knew they had to get out.    In the fall of 1979, they made their break. Four adults and five children found themselves on the shores of the United States, just as so many other immigrants had throughout the history of this country.    "It is a miracle that 11 of us, five adults and six children, children between the ages of 18 months and 10 years of age, together we were able to escape and come to the United States. I am the youngest of those six children," Nhim said.    But Nhim's experience wasn't quite like it is today. President Donald Trump implemented a zero-tolerance policy when it comes to immigration that led to families being detained separately when they entered the country beginning April 6.    "When we arrived we were not held in detainment camps or separated from one another. We were not sent back or refused refuge. We were welcomed and given a second chance at life. I know that if my family was turned away and not allowed in the United States, if we were sent back to Cambodia, we would be dead," Nhim said.   Life wasn't easy here for Nhim. She was bullied and made fun of. She heard more than her share of racist remarks. But now Nhim has a master's degree in autism spectrum disorders and helps children in her job as a behavioral analyst. She is raising a family of her own. She's educated. She's worked hard.    "I speak because families deserve to be together and deserve a second chance at life," Nhim said.   Retired pediatrician Dr. Eli Newberger warned of the long-term impacts child separation has on the child.    "Separation from the people who can give them comfort is a traumatic impact and has lifelong implications," Newberger said.   Nhim told her story in front of hundreds, all dressed in white to denote peace and unity and holding signs in opposition to Trump's policies. A court has ruled against the administration's practice of separating families and has ordered they be back together within 30 days, and for children under the age of 5, 14 days. Although a recent executive order now calls for detaining families together, thousands of children have been relocated around the country and it is not clear when, or if, they will be reunited with their parents.    However, the zero-tolerance policy also remains in effect and many children may be held indefinitely.   For the hundreds in Park Square, and thousands across the country, that's unAmerican.    "This is not a place where we do this to people regardless of their nationality, regardless of their status. We do not separate families and we do not put children in cages. This is not the America all of us here live for, dream of, and love," Mayor Linda Tyer said.     The protestors were particularly upset with the administration's policy that separated families. State Sen. Adam Hinds reflected on the last week when the court had to make a ruling on the immigration policy and the Supreme Court upheld the most recent travel ban on Muslim countries.   He remembered being in Iraq -- which isn't included on the list of countries on the ban list -- when a man came to him with a piece of paper, covered in blood, and with a bullet hole in it. The paper was in the man's son's pocket when he was shot.    "That's who is looking to come into this country as refugees. And yet, we are closing the door even after endless background checks. That's not who we are," Hinds said.    Hinds said the current immigration policy is a far cry from the principles upon which the country was founded. But, as he looked out at the hot and boisterous crowd, he said that in Pittsfield, the Berkshires, in Massachusetts, "you're welcome."    U.S. Rep. Richard Neal said twice in the last two weeks he voted against a "bad immigration bill." And he hopes Congress can come to an agreement on a bill.   "We ought to be able to find a way to reform the system because our economy right now, they need this immigrant labor -- high end, medium, and low end. We simply need them," Neal said.   But one thing he completely objects to is building a wall along the Mexican border.    Attorney Donna Morelli discussed some of the pending legal issues with immigration and urged people to donate to help pay the bonds for the families detained at the border. South Congregational Church's the Rev. Joel Huntington also spoke on the issue.   Similar protests were held throughout the country, organized by Families Belong Together and sponsored by numerous local activists groups. Close to a dozen local groups teamed up to organize the event in Pittsfield, which drew protesters from all over the county. There were also rallies held in Williamstown and Great Barrington and 38 other Massachusetts communities. 
176	adjudicated	2	For the second time in less than three months, thousands of people marched from Milwaukee's south side to the county courthouse Monday in support of immigrants' rights and in defiance of policies espoused by Sheriff David A. Clarke Jr. and President Donald Trump.  The Milwaukee demonstration on May 1, also known as International Workers' Day, was a local version of May Day rallies held around the world and across the U.S. in support of better pay and working conditions. The action echoed a Milwaukee protest on Feb. 16 that called for Latinos, immigrants and refugees to take off work and protest Clarke's plan to crack down on illegal immigrants.  RELATED: 'Day Without Latinos' marchers denounce Trump  Both Milwaukee demonstrations were planned by Voces de la Frontera, a social activist group that's protested against Trump for emboldening local law enforcement to deport illegal immigrants, and against Clarke for endorsing the repeal of pro-immigrant policies. Clarke, who has termed Voces a "slimy pro-illegal immigration organization," did not respond to a request for comment Monday.  May Day marchers in Milwaukee demonstrated for immigrant and worker rights Monday. They marched from 1027 S. 5th St. to the Milwaukee County Courthouse for a rally on the steps. The Trump administration is considering Clarke for a position in the Department of Homeland Security.  While union members traditionally march on May 1 for workers’ rights in countries around the world, the day has become a rallying point for immigrants in the U.S. since massive demonstrations were held on the date in 2006 against a proposed immigration enforcement bill.  In recent years, immigrant rights protests shrank as groups diverged and shifted their focus to voter registration and lobbying. Larger crowds were expected to return this year as immigrant groups have joined with Muslim organizations, women’s advocates and others in their united opposition to Trump administration policies.  In Wisconsin, buses from more than 11 cities brought supporters from around the state to join the Milwaukee march. Many parents pulled their children out of school, and 160 businesses closed, according to Voces.   Milwaukee Public Schools reported 488 teacher absences Monday. That's higher than average, but it's impossible to tell how many absent teachers were part of the march.  'A level of fear out there' Ana Paula immigrated to Milwaukee from Brazil years ago and could be found near the start of the march at 1027 S. 5th St. Monday just before noon. She works at Core El Centro, a Walker's Point nonprofit that closed so workers could demonstrate.  "For me, it's personal," Paula said. "I'm a therapist. I listen to the stories of immigrants. There's this level of fear out there."  Many young students left school to join the march. South Division High School students carried their school banner. Near them, a cluster of Waukesha teenagers discussed the issues.  "Every grown-up says we are the future, so we are making our voices heard," said 15-year-old Rocio Vega, who attends Waukesha North High School.   One man with a thick Mexican accent walked alongside the march with his wife and two young sons, whom he had taken out of school. The man only wanted to be identified by his last name, Romero, and said he immigrated from Mexico and became an American citizen 21 years ago. Now he holds dual citizenship. Just four years ago, he said, his brother was kidnapped and shot to death by Mexican cartel members in his hometown.  "It's not safe there," Romero said.  He added that he wished that Trump and Clarke would put more money and energy into improving schools and roads and public buildings instead of trying to lock up illegal immigrants, many of whom are working hard to make better lives for themselves and their families.  Smaller demonstrations took place elsewhere in Wisconsin. A few hundred demonstrators in Madison marched and gathered on the steps leading up to the state Capitol to sing labor standards and chant in both English and Spanish.   "Education not deportation!" and "Sí se puede (Yes we can!)" the protesters shouted.   Signs in the crowd ranged from pro-immigration and anti-Trump to others representing the socialist party and the teaching assistants' union at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.   Rally at the courthouse After filling the length of S. 6th St. between Walker's Point and downtown, the Milwaukee marchers flooded the courthouse grounds about 1:30 p.m. Several brief rays of sunlight gave way to gray skies, then drizzle, then hail.  Christine Neumann-Ortiz, executive director of Voces de la Frontera, told the crowd that people on the far right of the political spectrum were trying to deprive them of their rights and humanity.  "You have set a bold example of resistance," she told the crowd.  Alicia Jarrett, a 35-year-old immigrant from Trinidad and Tobago who lives in Racine, listened intently. She rode one of the three buses that came from Racine with students and other residents.  Alicia Jarrett, 35, earned her citizenship after immigrating from Trinidad and Tobago. She now lives in Racine and attended the Milwaukee May Day march. Jarrett overstayed her visa after coming to the U.S. at age 16, but eventually became a citizen in 2012 and obtained a degree from Alverno College. She's now applying to Loyola University to obtain a master's degree in public policy.  "I'm going to start fighting from the inside," she said.  Reporter Jason Stein contributed to this report from Madison, and the AP also contributed.
177	adjudicated	3	CHEYENNE – Wind, a chilly breeze and even light hail didn’t stop more than 100 people from taking to the streets Monday afternoon to show support for undocumented immigrants in Wyoming.  Protesters across the nation participated in May Day events. Though the annual demonstrations usually center on labor issues, Monday’s march and rally in Cheyenne was focused on supporting immigrant communities that have been in a state of uncertainty and fear because of President Donald Trump’s approach to immigration.  The event began at the Cheyenne Depot Plaza before participants marched down Capitol Avenue to Gov. Matt Mead’s temporary office across the street from the state Capitol. There, organizers delivered a letter signed by supporters to Mead before marching back for a rally inside the Cheyenne Depot Museum. Chants and cheers rang throughout the speech, with now familiar calls of “this is what democracy looks like” and the more topical “no human is illegal.”  Local advocacy group Juntos organized the event. Executive Director Antonio Serrano said it’s an important time to show support for the undocumented in Wyoming because those people and their loved ones are living in fear under the Trump administration.  “We’ve seen the fear people are living with every day firsthand,” he said.  “We see the fear with kids, especially. We have kids in school being bullied, being told they’re going to be deported. And it’s been happening locally. We want people to feel safe in Wyoming. We grew up here, and we love this community.”  Even before Trump’s election, previous administrations’ policies led to undocumented people and their loved ones facing deportations and raids by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents in Wyoming. Serrano said the march was in part to send a message to Wyoming’s undocumented that they have supporters in the state.  It also was to send a message to those in Wyoming government, he said.  “We want our local government to know that we care about the immigrant community, the refugees,” Serrano said. “We want law enforcement – especially the (Laramie County) Sheriff’s Department – to know that we know what they’re doing.”  Cheyenne resident Sandi Gaulke said several groups have worked together to advocate for the undocumented in Wyoming since 2012 raids affected several families locally. She said she doesn’t oppose deporting dangerous criminals among the undocumented, but she wants to see comprehensive immigration reform to protect working families.  “They’re our neighbors, our friends, workers in this community, children who go to school,” Gaulke said. “While they’re not documented now, many have been in this community for 20 years. We don’t think it’s right to just kick them out.”  Sabrina King, policy director for the American Civil Liberties Union of Wyoming, said that organization has historically stood behind immigrants. She said the local chapter is working with Juntos to advocate for the undocumented, adding she’d like to see Mead make a statement of support.  “Honestly, the biggest thing is even just coming out with a statement of support saying that immigrants are welcome here, and undocumented folks are going to be safe in our communities,” King said.  “There’s a lot of fear right now, and a lot of that fear can be allayed by just showing his support and acknowledging people are frightened by what the federal government is doing.”  Some Wyoming residents have made faith-based decisions to support the undocumented in the state, including Rodger McDaniel, pastor at Highlands United Presbyterian Church in Cheyenne.  “For me, it’s biblical,” he said. “I think Scripture is pretty clear that we are called on to treat foreigners kindly, to welcome them to our land and to recognize we are all immigrants of some sort. So I come at it from a faith perspective, just believing its part of what we’re called to do as Christians.”  Conditions outside that started cold deteriorated by the time the march reached the Depot. McDaniel said the considerable participation and energy of the crowd despite the conditions showed strong support for the cause.  “To have this kind of turnout on a day when the weather is threatening, and it’s a work day, it says something,” he said. “I hope people like the governor would take notice of that.” 
178	adjudicated	4	PRESQUE ISLE, Maine — A small but passionate group of 12 individuals, including two children, gathered outside Hardscrabble Solutions on Main Street in Presque Isle Saturday afternoon, holding cardboard signs with messages such as “Be Kind to Kids” and “Keep Families Together” to speak out against what they believe to be unjust immigration policies from U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration.  The “Families Belong Together” event was organized locally by Lillie Lavado, who owns and operates the family-friendly coworking space, and became one of more than 700 similar marches across the country. In Maine, “Families Belong Together” protests were held in Presque Isle, Bangor, Augusta, Bath, Brunswick, Portland, Bar Harbor, Damariscotta, Farmington, Machias, Lewiston, Auburn, Prospect Harbor and Vinalhaven.  “I was scrolling through news sites one evening and my 4-year-old daughter saw a photo of migrant children lying on mats in one of the detention camps. She asked, ‘Mommy, why are those kids lying under foil?’” Lavado said, of her inspiration for organizing the march. “These are the images our government has put into the minds of children even though we’re supposed to be a country that supports human rights.”   Lorette Adams of Mars Hill wears a jacket that says, “I Care, Poliquin, Do U?” The jacket references U.S. Rep. Bruce Poliquin of Maine and the jacket worn by U.S. First Lady Melania Trump that said “I Really Don’t Care, Do You?” which caused backlash after she wore it on her way to detention facilities where children of illegal immigrants are being held near the southern U.S. border. Adams was one of 12 people who participated in a “Families Belong Together” march in Presque Isle on Saturday. (Melissa Lizotte)   In recent weeks, since the Trump administration issued a “zero tolerance” immigration policy, over 2,500 children were forcibly taken from their parents at the U.S.-Mexican border and placed in detention camps, many of which have been said to resemble cages, after the families were caught crossing the border illegally.           SPONSORED CONTENT How To Find the Right Loan Option for You By Katahdin Trust Company On Tuesday, June 26, U.S. District Court Judge Dana M. Sabraw in San Diego ordered the Trump administration to reunite the roughly 2,000 migrant children that are still being held from their parents within 30 days, or 14 days for any minors 5 years old or under. But the administration has thus far given no clear answer on when or how it plans to reunite those families.  Lavado said she has continually been disappointed with the administration’s approach to immigration policy, which she feels has roots in racism. She decided to hold a “Families Belong Together” march in part to inspire her own daughters and people in the community to advocate for equal treatment of migrant families.  “I want people to know that even though we’re geographically isolated from what’s happening at the border we’re still responsible for advocating for others and speaking up for what is right,” Lavado said. Her two daughters Saraphina, 4, and Miriam, 7, also participated in Saturday’s march, proudly holding up their own signs that said “Trump is Poop” and “Re-Unite Children,” respectively.   As the local protesters showed their support for immigrant families on Saturday they received many waves and honks of support from drivers who passed them on Main Street. They often shouted to the traffic, “Keep Families Together” and remained in good spirits as they reflected on what activism means to them.  Alanna Morin of Presque Isle held up a handmade sign that read “Free the Children! We are better than this. Keep families together.” In years past Morin has worked as an English language tutor for Mexican migrant workers who come to Aroostook County during the summer and fall crop season. The recent events at the southern border, she said, have reminded her how important it is to be empathetic toward others.           SPONSORED CONTENT Doctors Stunned: 72 Year Old Grandma Clears Her Wrinkles With This Method  By SouthBeachSkinLab “I’ve seen firsthand how hard these migrants work to provide for their families and devote hours to harvesting crops for people,” Morin said. “Instead of criminalizing people who are simply trying to escape danger happening in their country, we should offer them support and assistance, not judgement.”  Belen Dougherty of Tennessee had travelled to Aroostook County with her husband to visit his family in Mapleton when a friend shared with her the post about the “Families Belong Together” march on the Hardscrabble Solutions Facebook page.   “As a mother I want to spread the message that we need to care for others who don’t have the advantage of advocating for themselves,” Dougherty said. “It’s great that people have come out today and want to make a difference.”   Sarah Leclaire (right) of Woodland holds a sign that says, “Be Kind to Kids,” during a “Families Belong Together” march in Presque Isle on Saturday. Beside her Belen Dougherty of Tennessee stands with her own sign that says, “Keep Families Together.” (Melissa Lizotte)    Belen Dougherty (left) of Tennessee and 7-year-old Miriam Persaud participate in the “Families Belong Together” march in Presque Isle on Saturday, June 30. (Melissa Lizotte)    Alice Bolstridge (left) of Presque Isle holds up a handmade sign that says, “We Care, Do You?” while Lorette Adams of Mars Hill displays a jacket that says, “I Care, Poliquin, Do U?” Both women participated in Saturday’s “Families Belong Together” march on Main Street in Presque Isle and referenced the now infamous jacket worn by First Lady Melania Trump before she boarded a plane to meet with immigrant children held in detention camps. That jacket bore the phrase, “I Really Don’t Care, Do You?” on the back side. (Melissa Lizotte)
179	adjudicated	2	LAS CRUCES — Immigration advocates blocked driveways to the U.S. Border Patrol headquarters in Las Cruces on Thursday afternoon, saying it was an act of civil disobedience meant to oppose President Donald Trump's proposed spending hike for border and immigration enforcement.  About 150 demonstrators begin to rally about 4 p.m. on sidewalks along North Main Street, along Triviz Drive and in the parking lot of Walgreens, 3100 N. Main St., Las Cruces. About an hour later, a small portion of the protesters held a rope across the entrance to the adjacent Border Patrol headquarters parking lot and driveway. Some protesters moved to the rear entrance, off Triviz Drive, and a blockade was set up there.  "This agency is responsible for family separation, just like ICE is, and this administration wants to give them more resources," said Johana Bencomo, community organizer with NM Comunidades en Acción y de Fé, which coordinated the event with two other groups. "They want to give them more boots on the ground, but they operate with little accountability, so we want no more money going to them."   It was the second such protest in recent months. Immigrant advocates in mid-February blocked parts of North Main Street near city hall and Church Street near U.S. District Court for about 45 minutes. That was in opposition to immigration raids in the county earlier that day by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE.  Mary Nuñez of Las Cruces, a volunteer with NM CAFé, said she participated in Thursday's protest because she doesn't want to see more federal resources routed to border enforcement agencies. The U.S. border with Mexico is already "super-militarized," she said.  "The amount of money Trump wants to allot is uncalled for," she said.  Much of the activity of the Las Cruces Border Patrol Station is geared toward running highway and interstate checkpoints in Doña Ana County.   Blockade formed In Thursday's event, some protesters laid down — or sat down — across the entrance to the Border Patrol station. State Rep. Bill McCamley, D-Las Cruces, was among those sitting across the facility's Triviz Drive entrance. At one point, the driver of a truck aggressively approached protesters near the Main Street entrance of the Border Patrol station, but he didn't hit them. One protester said a driver also angrily wielded a bat as a threat, but didn't hit anyone.   Another man driving a car and trying to exit the Border Patrol station said protesters were blocking him from picking up his child from school.  Officers from the Las Cruces Police Department arrived on scene, conferred with Border Patrol agents and began holding down the rope, so vehicles on the Border Patrol's property could exit. In one instance, officers flanked people who were laying down to shield them as a vehicle passed the blockade.   Organizers said only protesters who'd gone through civil disobedience training were allowed to block the entrances. Other protesters were limited to standing on the sidewalks.  Bencomo said protesters participating in the blockade were aware of "all the risks and all the consequences," including the possibility of getting injured or arrested.  "Every single one of these folks are willing to stand here to take a stand and to make a bold statement that our undocumented brothers and sisters on the border, their lives matter and that we stand with them," she said. "I think we've made a bold statement today."  Your stories live here. Fuel your hometown passion and plug into the stories that define it. Create Account Temperatures were in the low 80s by late afternoon, and some protesters handed out bottled water to demonstrators.  Eli Hernandez of Las Cruces, a member of the Ysleta del Sur Pueblo, said he attended because "everyone has a right on this Earth," and he doesn't believe the federal government actually cares about individuals.  "I'm Native American, and I wish we had people to back the Native Americans when we needed help," he said. "I'm just here as a human being representative."  New Mexico State Rep. Bill McCamley,left and Johanna Bencomo, with New Mexico Comunidades en Accion y de Fé stood in the drive way of the border patrol station in Las Cruces during a civil disobedience action that occurred  at protest in front of the Border Patrol station in Las Cruces, Thursday May 4, 2017. No citations issued Protesters stemmed mainly from three groups: the activism group NM CAFé; the ACLU New Mexico Regional Center for Border Rights; and the New Mexico Dream Team, another group supporting immigrants.  Asked if there would be any citations resulting from the protest, LCPD Police Chief Jaime Montoya said: "I talked to the station commander, and he didn't have any issue with the protesters blocking the entrances/exits to his building as none of the employees had to leave or enter the building. We did assist some employees with leaving and arriving with the cooperation of the protesters."   After shepherding a few vehicles through the blockade, LCPD officers then left.  "Since the station commander had no issues with the protesters I talked to my lieutenant on scene about the incident, and we decided we were no longer needed so we left to deal with other pressing calls," Montoya said.  Montoya acknowledged such demonstrations "may become a regular occurrence."  "But I hope with communication with all parties it does not get out of hand," he said.   The blockade lasted about an hour, finally dispersing after protesters stationed a memorial to immigrants who'd been killed by U.S. Customs & Border Protection on a median in front of the Border Patrol building. Protesters said they were going to a park near city hall to debrief.  “This is not going to be the last time we do this,” said Allex Luna, an organizer with NM CAFé. “What we did today was draw the line.”  The Border Patrol didn't respond to a request for comment Thursday.  Along with McCamley, four other elected officials joined the protest — Las Cruces Public Schools Board of Education Members Maria Flores and Maury Castro, Doña Ana County Commissioner Billy Garrett, and Kevin Bixby, who won a seat on the Doña Ana Soil and Water Conservation District Board earlier this week.
180	adjudicated	4	Editor's note: This story has been updated to correct George North's name.  ADRIAN — Families belong together was the rallying cry Saturday afternoon at a demonstration in Adrian.  “They need to end this policy,” Rich Bogrow of Tecumseh said outside of the historic county courthouse while carrying a sign that read “End Family Separation.”  Protest demonstrations against President Donald Trump’s immigrations policies were held across the country Saturday. There were nearly 100 people at the one in Adrian.   Asked why he was outside under the hot summer sun, Bogrow said because he has empathy for other people and sees the policy as inhumane.  The Adrian demonstration was co-organized by local advocate Nicole Gestwite, who with along with some others spoke at the start of the demonstration.  “Today we stand together,” Gestwite said. “We use our privilege and our voices to speak for those who haven’t one, and we tell this current administration that their actions are not OK. Their actions are not humane. We shout to anyone who will listen that families belong together.”   Gestwite said studies prove that childhood trauma can lead to hardships as adults, including both mental and physical issues. She said as a former foster child she still is working through her childhood traumas.  World War II veteran George North, 96, was on hand as well and said he and others fought a war to get rid of people like Trump.  “I think it’s entirely wrong and it’s the worst thing for our country right now,” Norris said of separating families. “Think of those poor little kids. This is not the United States I know.”   Amber Pederson of Seneca Township said the demonstration was a community cause to give voice to the voiceless families impacted by the policy.  “We need to make sure we stand up in support of each other,” she said.
181	adjudicated	4	Around 300 high school students marched through University of Oregon campus as part of the annual Raza Unida Youth Conference. They chanted phrases like, “El pueblo, unido, jamás será vencido,” (the town united will never be divided) and “Migration is beautiful.”  The conference is an all-day event organized by MEChA in which Latinx high school students from Lane County and all over the state come to the UO campus to attend workshops on topics ranging from knowing your rights to latin dance. There is also a political action portion and a cultural portion, according to Amy Garay-Azucena, Media and Communications Director for MEChA.  MEChA is a student organization focused on education rights of Latinx students. Around 300 MEChA chapters exist nationwide, according to UO MEChA’s website. Latinx is a gender neutral way to refer to people of Latin American descent.  This year’s Raza Unida Youth Conference theme is “Mi Exsistencia es Resistencia,” (My existence is resistance). The conference aims to empower Latinx youth by providing education and resources that could help them get into college.  “I hope the high school students see folks that look like them succeeding” said Manuel Mejia Gonzales, a coordinator of the conference.  The students gathered to listen to speeches in the EMU amphitheater after marching to the Memorial Quad to place red flags in the lawn. The flags represented the 30,000 families separated by mass deportations last year.   In President Trump’s speech announcing his presidential bid, he regarded Mexican immigrants saying, “They’re bringing drugs. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people.”  “Majority of mi gente [my people] who come from Mexico are not rapists criminals nor drug dealers. They came to this country for a better life, to escape the violence and for education,” said Alex Aguilar, 17-year-old Youth Organizer and Media coordinator for MECha. “You are not alone. Look around. We are here together. This is where we start. Remember we are seeds who will rise into a flower, just how a phoenix rises from its ashes.”
182	adjudicated	3	It's been six months since President Donald Trump's election, and Brevard County residents are still finding reasons to pound the pavement in opposition to the policies and ideas from his administration.            "If I'm not calling my congressman or marching or doing something at least once a week, I get depressed," said Marianne Carter, who participated in an immigration rally in Palm Bay on Saturday. "I have to do this."            She joined about 80 people who stood at the southeast corner of Palm Bay Road and Babcock Street late Saturday morning. They held up signs and chanted in support of the country's immigrants. Speak Out Brevard, the American Civil Liberties Union and the Islamic Society of Brevard County supported the event, which included a march south on Babcock to the lot north of Hurricane Bingo.      More than 100 gathered in Palm Bay Saturday to participate in a march and rally in support of immigration.       "As attacks on immigrants and refugees continue to come under the Trump administration, it's important that we unite together and show the President, this country and the members of our Brevard community that we will not be intimidated and sit by while they live in fear without a voice," said Karen Wade, who organized Saturday's event.    Activists have been inspired to hit the streets after two attempts by the Trump administration to ban travel to the U.S. by residents of several countries with heavy Muslim populations. The administration is also continuing plans for a security wall along the Mexican border.          "The election has stirred up the latent activist in us," said Renna Ferrell of Indian Harbour Beach. "My paternal family is from Belize. I take this personally. I had to get involved."  Wade said there are other immigration issues on the horizons. The acting director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services is recommending that the U.S. end temporary protections by next January for 50,000 Haitians. Those Haitians arrived in the U.S. following a series of natural disasters, such as the 2010 earthquake, that crippled the poverty-stricken Caribbean nation.   There's also immigrants from Honduras and El Salvador in the U.S. under temporary protection statutes that may soon expire as well, Wade said. 
183	adjudicated	4	Nadine Yousef appeared genuinely touched Saturday when more than 60 people stopped in front of the West Side Bazaar, where she works, to express support for immigrants and refugees as part of the Western New York Peace Center's Immigrants Solidarity March and Rally.  She gave a shy greeting and offered thanks for the support that she and her family received after coming to Buffalo from Iraq two years ago. Yousef, her husband and four children arrived in Buffalo fearing they would be resented or shunned. But the opposite happened.  "That's amazing when you see all the people around you," she said, after people applauded and cheered her brief remarks. "They like us and support us here."  She spoke to people carrying signs like "Buffalo is better with refugees" and "Negate the hate."  Yousef works seven days a week. Both she and her husband work at Wegmans, then Yousef comes to the West Side Bazaar to tend to her macrame shop, where she sells macrame art, jewelry, hanging planters and clothing.  Michelle Holler, program manager for the West Side Bazaar, told the crowd, "Thank you for supporting diversity and what makes America beautiful."  The crowd of rally participants walked for an hour and carried signs in the light-but-relentless drizzle. They stopped at the bazaar, which supports immigrant businesses and restaurateurs, then proceeded to Lafayette High School, which has the highest concentration of refugee high school students in the city.  [PHOTO GALLERY: Immigrants Solidarity March]  Bullhorn chants were loud and plenty:  "When our friends and neighbors are under attack, what do we do? Stand up, fight back!"  "No wars! No walls! Sanctuary for all!"  At Lafayette High School, former Bhutan refugee Lamin Tamang recounted how he was "kicked out" of his country in 1992 and spent 20 years in a refugee camp in Nepal before making his way to Buffalo in 2012. He will graduate shortly with his associate's degree from Erie Community College. He works in the Central Registration Office of the Buffalo Public Schools to assist immigrant families registering their children.  Refugees shouldn't be dismissed as welfare burdens who don't contribute back to the community, he said. They should be embraced as productive citizens.  "We are here to love each other, not hate," he said.  The march and rally, which started with singing and drums at the Massachusetts Avenue playground near Winter Street, ended at Pilgrim-St. Luke's United Church of Christ, a self-declared sanctuary church.  Renee Stith, an Elmwood Village resident unaffiliated with any group, said times are truly tough when introverts like her join a movement. She carried a sign that said, "Make America kind again."  "It's necessary that we show ourselves," she said.  Various community, anti-racism, faith and immigration advocates came together to participate in the afternoon event, one of multiple events planned by the Western New York Peace Center as part of the recurring National Day of Action.
184	adjudicated	2	Dozens of people gathered at Indian Spring Park Saturday afternoon in support of immigrants.  "We're here today to speak for those who cannot speak for themselves," Ernesto Fraga, publisher of Tiempo newspaper said as he opened his speech at the rally.  Maribel Loredo, a 6th grader at Cesar Chavez Middle School, organized the march with the Waco Immigrants Alliance. People marched down University Parks Drive and rallied in solidarity with the immigrant community.  "It's a sign of passion and inspires you to do something," Loredo said. She is part of an immigrant family and recognizes why people migrate to Texas. “They come here for a better life and better opportunities, the things going down in Mexico are way different than they are here,” she said.  Activist with the Waco Immigrants Alliance Deshauna Hollie said the purpose of the rally was to unify the people of Waco. "We welcome immigrants in Waco, and not only do we welcome immigrants but welcome people who already call Waco home," Hollie said.  Charlotte Laughlin, an immigrant ally and teacher, said the immigrants she knows are a part of the Waco community. "The vast majority are contributing members of society,” she said.  Laughlin said she and the others are protesting Texas Senate Bill 4, which outlaws sanctuary cities and allows law enforcement to ask people for citizenship papers in public. “In any group there will be a percentage of chiselers and criminals, those are the ones we need to look for, and leave everybody else alone," she said.  Laughlin added that deporting parents will leave families separated. “For kids who were born here and have citizenship in this country, but the mothers have been deported, separating them from their children, it’s going to be traumatic. And that’s not the American way,” Laughlin said.  She hopes the rally will promote peace and unity in the city, regardless of race or background. "Out here at the park you see people in prom dress, all different ethnic groups, hugging each other, having fun, I want to keep it that way. I want Waco neighborhoods to be safe and peaceful," she said.
185	adjudicated	1	ANN ARBOR, MI - Thousands of people gathered on the University of Michigan Diag in Ann Arbor on Saturday, June 30, to protest immigrant family separations carried out by the Trump administration. Here are some of the signs spotted in the crowd.
186	adjudicated	2	MIAMI (AP) - Hundreds of people took to the Miami streets for a protest aimed at allowing Haitian immigrants who arrived after that country’s devastating 2010 earthquake to remain in the U.S.  The peaceful protest took place Saturday outside a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services office. Local media reported protesters waved signs, chanted and played music in support of an extension of Temporary Protective Status for Haitians.  A woman dressed as the Statue of Liberty held a torch-shaped sign that read, “TPS is Liberty.”  TOP STORIES Why electric vehicles are a bad investment Kamala Harris’ staffers can’t quit their jobs fast enough Kareem Abdul-Jabbar: Will Smith’s slap at Oscars ‘perpetuated stereotypes about the Black community’ President Donald Trump’s administration must announce by May 23 whether to continue that status for about 50,000 Haitians legally living and working in the U.S. before Jan. 12, 2011. Otherwise they could face sudden deportation.  Miami is home to thousands of Haitians, centered on its Little Haiti neighborhood.
187	adjudicated	3	OAKLAND PARK, FLA. (WSVN) - Members of South Florida’s Haitian community took to the streets of Oakland Park, Sunday afternoon, in support of Haitian nationals’ ability to remain in the Unites States legally.  Standing outside the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Building, located at 4451 N.W. 31st Ave., protesters urged the Department of Homeland Security to extend temporary protected status for thousands of Haitians who fled their country after the deadly 2010 earthquake.  Mae Smith with the St. George Civic Association worries that families will be separated if the Trump administration does not renew the immigration designation that allows thousands of Haitians living in the U.S. to remain in the country.  “The one thing that compels me to come out here more than anything is the threat of children being separated from their parents. This is something everyone should have a problem with,” said Smith.  Guithele Ruiz-Nicoles with the Haitian American Democratic Club of Broward echoed Smith’s concerns. “These people are human. They contribute to the economy here, they have homes, they have children in school who were born here,” she said. “By deporting the parents, we have a group of children who will have no parents.”  TPS was granted by the Obama administration in the wake of the earthquake, which claimed hundreds of thousands of lives in the Caribbean country. It allows Haitians to live and work freely in the U.S.  Supporters said the Haitian community is vital to South Florida because of their contributions to the economy and the area’s diverse culture.
188	adjudicated	2	SHEBOYGAN - Immigration rights activists rallied Tuesday night outside a Sheboygan Area School District board meeting to press local school leaders to adopt “sanctuary” policies aimed at protecting undocumented immigrant students.  About 85 protesters, organized by Milwaukee-based group Voces de la Frontera, hoisted banners and signs just outside Sheboygan South High School, where the board was meeting to accommodate larger-than-normal crowds for that night's annual student and employee awards presentations. Members of the group Youth Empowered in the Struggle, a Voces de la Frontera-affiliated student organization, were also part of the rally, which featured a march outside the school before protesters filed into the building to watch parts of the meeting.  The organization has been pressing schools to adopt a resolution that would, among other things, limit immigration enforcement officers’ access to schools and provide resources in the district to undocumented immigrants and their families. The resolution, as drafted, would also require the district to pay for attorneys to represent students facing deportation.   RELATED: Immigration group seeks city, school protections in Sheboygan   “We just come in peace and ask them to please help these families and keep the school safe for kids and for the families,” Saul Uribe, one of the protesters, told a reporter. He said the resolution is important to help immigrant students and their families feel safe from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement raids.   Superintendent Joe Sheehan said Tuesday the district was considering updating policies to specifically prohibit bullying in schools based on students’ immigration status. Proposed policy updates would also clarify law enforcement agents’ access to students.  The board took no action on the matter and didn't spend much time on the topic. But members did listen to comments from several meeting attendees, mostly backing the resolution.   Abril Moreno, a senior at Sheboygan North High School who has pushed the district to pass the measure, told board members more than 1,000 people had signed petitions this month urging the district to adopt rules protecting immigrants, and offered to submit those signatures to the board.  Moreno also said local undocumented immigrants are fearful of being deported.  “Deportation is happening here. Whether you see it or not, it is,” she said during a public comment portion of the meeting. “I know that maybe you don’t understand because you didn’t have to cross a border when you were just a kid.”  Your stories live here. Fuel your hometown passion and plug into the stories that define it. Create Account Several others also backed the resolution. Bob Bledsoe, who described himself as a Unitarian Universalist minister living in Sheboygan, told board members “reasonable people can debate and can argue,” but that everyone should agree children of undocumented immigrants shouldn’t be targeted for deportation.  “There are places we consider sanctuary for a reason: churches, synagogues, mosques,” he said. “And I would argue that schools are also to be sanctuaries.”  Not everyone agreed.  “I think the community is trusting you to do what’s right in the eyes of the law at this time,” Becci Aschenbach told board members. “I don’t know the law. I haven’t studied the law. But I believe what they’re asking us to do is condone illegal behavior.  “I feel for them,” Aschenbach added of undocumented students, noting many entered the U.S. with their parents. And, she added, schools have a responsibility to support students in the classroom. “But I don’t believe that it’s right to condone something that’s against the law.”  The board didn't discuss the issue in much depth Tuesday. But discussions in the past suggested the resolution, or at least parts of it, could face a challenge. Elected leaders earlier this month said they thought the district should deal with immigration issues by making changes to its policies, not by adopting a resolution. Board members also wondered whether existing federal regulations would trump whatever policies or resolutions schools might adopt. And the board’s vice president, Mark Mancl, has called parts of the resolution “essentially a self-inflicted unfunded mandate.”  School board member Ryan Burg said before Tuesday's meeting parts of the resolution would likely need to change before the board might approve it, though he noted the district has “a moral and legal obligation to care for all of our students, and especially the migrant and the immigrant community.”   “I really hope that we can come to something that works for everyone, and that recognizes the Hispanic community, recognizes the immigrant community,” Burg said, “but also, too, doesn’t do so at the expense of all of our students.”  Elliott Magers, a local organizer with Voces de la Frontera, has chafed at claims the resolution would impact the district’s budget. The resolution, though, at least as drafted, would require the district to “fund attorneys to represent students facing removal proceedings.” Burg said that line specifically could need nixing if the board ends up seriously considering the measure.  Among other things, the resolution would require Sheboygan schools to:  Step up partnerships with legal and other types of organizations to offer resources for families facing deportation Offer presentations covering students’ and their family members’ rights when working with law and immigration enforcement agents Create a “rapid response network” — though the term isn’t clearly defined — to help detained students or their family members Treat students equally when offering school services, including free and reduced-price lunches, transportation and instruction The measure would also bar the district from doing certain things, including:  Asking about or recording a student’s or family member’s immigration status Telling federal authorities about students’ “confidential information” — including their “actual or perceived” citizenship status, gender identity and sexual orientation, among other things — without the student’s, or his or her guardian’s, permission Voluntarily sharing information with immigration agents, “to the fullest extent possible under the law” Entering into agreements with local, state or certain federal law or immigration enforcement agencies, “except as required by law”  The proposed rules are modeled on a resolution drafted by the National Immigration Law Center, a Los Angeles-based immigration organization that’s pushed for protections for undocumented immigrants. The resolution in Sheboygan is also similar to a recently adopted set of rules in Milwaukee Public Schools aimed at making that district a “safe haven” for undocumented immigrant students.  Magers has been critical of local school leaders’ response to his organization’s demands. He said he felt “embarrassed” listening to board members’ discussion on the topic earlier this month, and said his organization’s push for sanctuary policies in schools has faced “nothing but obstruction since Day 1.”  Voces de la Frontera is also pushing the City of Sheboygan to distribute photo identification cards to local residents in a move aimed at getting around stricter rules that can bar undocumented immigrants from getting state-issued driver’s licenses. The city IDs couldn’t be used to vote, and the issue hasn’t fielded official discussion yet at any Common Council meetings.
189	adjudicated	2	Immigrant solidarity rally held in Mohegan Lake May 24, 2017, 5:01pmUpdated on May 24, 2017 By: News 12 Staff   0:03 / 1:52    More than 100 residents joined together in a solidarity event for immigrants Wednesday night in Mohegan Lake. The rally, held at the Hudson Valley Islamic Community Center, was organized by the Coalition of Concerned Clergy. Leaders of 22 churches, synagogues and mosques across northern Westchester and Putnam signed a "Declaration of Concern," expressing their support for people in the community of Muslim faith and for any immigrants who have been experiencing fear and concern. Organizers Steve Axinn says his own ancestors were immigrants to the United States and were able to flourish. He says he wants that for young people who call the Hudson Valley their home. "That gift which I am living representative of today is the gift that I want to make sure that Muslim children have, Hispanic children have and all children who live in this area have," he says. A moment of silence was also held for those who lost their lives to terrorism in Manchester, England.
190	adjudicated	1	Minneapolis, MN - 70 pro-immigrant activists and community members gathered May 28 at The Bachelor Farmer restaurant in downtown Minneapolis, demanding drivers licenses for immigrants. The Bachelor Farmer is owned by Eric and Andrew Dayton, sons of current Minnesota Governor Mark Dayton.  The action began when six activists dressed as waiters entered the restaurant delivering menus that described facts about undocumented immigrants and a call for Governor Dayton to veto Minnesota bill HF 470, a public safety bill that includes anti-immigrant language to deny drivers licenses to undocumented immigrants.  At the same time, outside the restaurant, over 60 people picketed on the sidewalk. Chants included "Immigrants at the table, not on the menu," and "Drivers licenses now!"  The action was put on by a coalition of immigrant rights groups and numerous community members who had taken part in organizing the Permanent Assembly of Governor Dayton's Office from May 23-26.  A statement regarding a meeting with Governor Dayton was released by the coalition of pro-immigrant organizations May 28 on Navigate Minnesota's Facebook page, stating, "We want to openly disclose that we finally got a meeting with Governor Dayton only a few hours before the expiration date for HF 470 on Tuesday night,” referring to a deadline by which the governor said he will take action on budget bills.
191	adjudicated	3	SOUTHFIELD — On Monday, June 12, dozens gathered outside the Mother of God Chaldean Catholic Church in Southfield to protest a recent wave of ICE raids that targeted, captured and detained dozens of Iraqi immigrants at multiple locations across Metro Detroit, including local churches, homes and even a hospital.  Shocked and outraged by the seizure of individuals from communities including Sterling Heights, Warren, Southfield, Oak Park and Dearborn, impacted family members rallied around the ICE detention facility in Detroit Sunday evening, where large white buses carrying the detainees were departing.  Protesters blocked a bus in an attempt to halt its transport to another detention facility.  Most of those taken into custody over the weekend are to be transported to the Northeast Ohio Correctional Center in Youngstown, Ohio before their deportation.  Friends and family of the targeted individuals said that more than 100 were rounded up and deported.  “We have around 160 in a list that we have compiled with other non profits and the ACLU,” Mark Arabo, a Califonia-based Chaldean American businessman of the Minority Humanitarian Foundation said.  ICE puts national estimates for deportation orders at 1,444 individuals, with around 199 individuals detained in the past week. Of those, 114 were detained in Michigan.  Cal of Southfield, Michigan is one of many Iraqi American Chaldeans who has called the U.S. home for nearly 40 years. Having served time for a 1993 armed robbery, he was released in 1999 and since has been a law-abiding member of society.  Many of his friends and associates, with past records as minor as marijuana possession, were part of those picked up by ICE over the weekend.  “I would be on one of those buses too,” he said. “If I didn’t run to an attorney to reopen my case.”  In a written statement to The Arab American News, ICE spokesman Khaalid Walls said that the selected were deemed eligible for removal under U.S. law.  “As part of ICE’s efforts to process the backlog of these individuals, the agency recently arrested a number of Iraqi nationals, all of whom had criminal convictions for crimes including homicide, rape, aggravated assault, kidnapping, burglary, drug trafficking, robbery, sex assault, weapons violations and other offenses,” he said.  The sweep follows the Iraq and Syria Genocide Emergency Relief and Accountability Act passed by Congress on June 6. The legislation called for the provision of emergency aid to the victims of genocide by ISIS against ethnic minorities, which include Christians, Yazidis, Assyrians and Shi’a Muslims, the latter of whom comprise a majority of Iraqis and are deemed heretics by ISIS.  Cal said that in the context of the current genocide, the Geneva convention against torture deems it unlawful to send persecuted individuals back to endangerment.  “You cannot send them to their death,” he said, adding that many of the friends and family of those detained are sure their loved ones will meet that fate if sent to Iraq.  Affected individuals are encouraged to get an attorney who’ll file a motion under the Convention Against Torture (CAT), with the threat of persecution evidenced by the Congressional bill that recognized violence against these groups.  Numerous Michigan lawmakers, including Rep. Sander Levin (D-Royal Oak) Reps. John Conyers (D-Detroit), Debbie Dingell (D-Dearborn), Dan Kildee (D-Flint), Brenda Lawrence (D-Southfield), and John Moolenaar (R-Midland), wrote to Department of Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly, requesting that Kelly immediately send a copy of the U.S. government’s agreement with Iraq so that Congress can review its terms. They followed up their request by asking for subsequent direction on measures to take to ensure the detainees’ safety.  “Until we in Congress can review all aspects of the agreement reached with Iraq, and the referenced safety measures, we urge you to hold off removal of these individuals to Iraq,” they wrote.  Salem Jiddou, principal engineer of a contracting firm, was among those in attendance at Monday’s rally.  “They were punished, they served their term in jail… and whatever fine was imposed upon them,” he said about the detainees. “Now, after 20 years of being good citizens, we are sending them to Iraq to die. What human rights is that?”   Laverne Kenawa cries upon recollection of her uncle’s seizure at the hands of ICE agents  The deportations follow recent negotiations between the Iraqi government and the Trump administration to remove a certain number of Americans of Iraqi origin from the country.  Sources say that the exchanges are part of an agreement to ease Iraq off of the U.S.’s travel ban.  “Reading between the lines,” said attorney George Mann, “orders from Washington [targeted] convicted criminals. But most of these people have been here for a long time and have their whole families here.”  Mann said that while some have met terms for orders of removal, which he recognizes as an often arbitrary and “blanket” designation, prior administrations have not prioritized forcibly deporting these individuals.  “Trump has never hidden his attitudes towards immigrants and people here illegally,” Mann said, noting that the administration “looks at people with orders of deportation as criminals.”  While Trump received support from the Chaldean American community, his campaign promises to protect and prioritize Christian immigrants and refugees from the Middle east were quickly eclipsed by his execution of his harsh immigration and deportation policies.  A statement released by Emgage on Tuesday called for immigration reform in the wake of the raids.  “It is imperative that local law enforcement be allowed the right to refuse to honor ICE’s detainer requests to maintain a level of trust between law enforcement and residents. Immigrants contribute heavily to our society, and have an enormous impact on our economy. Immigration reform is needed, and the separating of families must come to an end,” said Emgage Executive Director Hassan Sheikh.  “Each [deportation] will be hurting at least 100 people because Chaldeans are family oriented people,” Jiddou said. “They served their terms, they are paying their taxes and some of them are very successful business people.”  Not all of those rounded up Sunday were of Chaldean or Christian origin.  One Muslim woman, a cosmetologist who volunteers at a Livonia food bank, vehemently demanded that justice be met for her family and community after her brother was taken by ICE agents Sunday.  “They said he’d be back in two hours. Where is he?” she asked. “We are volunteers; we work here; we pay our taxes and we pay our dues…we were adopted into this country, only to be targeted.”  Immigrants rights groups from Detroit to Ann Arbor also joined Monday’s rally to share information and offer support.  Representatives from the Ann Arbor/Ypsilanti Rapid Response team showed up to distribute information and instruct residents to not comply with certain ICE demands out of intimidation.  “In response to all questions, say, ‘I don’t want to talk to you without a lawyer,'” a representative from the group advised the crowd.  They additionally advised the families and friends of those detained to not have their loved ones sign anything while in custody, which they warned would “sign away their rights.”  However, attorneys and groups say that these individuals are being moved and held before they can organize or receive help.  “You wait in jail until the judge grants you a bond,” Mann said, recalling that recent cases involved individuals facing arrest before their cases forwarded to judges for bond hearings.  “Either a judge in Ohio will have to decide the bond or we would have to go represent [them] there or telephonically over a crucial bond hearing” he said.
192	adjudicated	4	Doaa Aldilaimi's 6-year old son Mohammed was lying on a bench in front of the McNamara Federal Building in Detroit Wednesday afternoon. He had been crying on and off for days and was exhausted, his mother explained  But as folks began to gather in a circle for a press conference, she called her son over.  "Come, we have to do this for your grandpa," she said.   Without missing a beat, the little boy in a navy polo shirt and khaki slacks stood next to his mom.     Over the weekend his 70-year old grandpa, Abidoon Aldilaimi was arrested by ICE during a series of raids, which resulted in the arrests of 114 Iraqis in the Metro Detroit area with criminal backgrounds. Mohammed, whose grandpa served six years in prison 15 years ago, watched in confusion as five officers led his relative out the front door.  Related:  ICE defends arrests of 114 Iraqi immigrants in metro Detroit with criminal backgrounds  While he may not have understood the politics behind the arrest, he understood "Do this for grandpa." He joined his mother and nearly 100 others who huddled close for a protest against the weekend's raids.    Shanta Driver, the lead attorney for BAMN (By Any Means Necessary), announced plans to file a class action suit in Federal Court Friday to halt the deportations of the Chaldean and Muslim immigrants that have been arrested. She also spoke about plans to file individual suits in Immigration Court.   Driver has been visiting detained clients in Youngstown, Ohio, where they are being held.   "I know so many people have asked me ‘What is happening? Are people going to be deported on Friday? Or are they going to be deported on Monday?’ We don’t know, and we will not know," she said. "One of the things that ICE likes to do is torture people and torture their families, which means every day there will be new rumors. Every day someone will hear that someone is leaving the next day."    Driver plans to return to Youngstown Thursday and told the crowd about carpool opportunities so they too could visit detained family members. She, however, pointed out that on Tuesday she witnessed a family with 12 children get turned away from seeing their father at the prison.  People of various faiths – many personally affected by the raids – huddled in a tight circle as they listened to Driver and then others take the bullhorn and share their stories.    Vosta Zaia, whose father was detained over the weekend, decided not to speak publicly but approached Driver after the conference. She wanted to know if her dad, who was not home when ICE first arrived at their house, would have an easier time staying in the States since he turned himself in. Driver told her no.  Protesters stood along Michigan Avenue and chanted. “Stop deportations, bring our families home,” they sang. Police stepped in when members of BAMN encouraged protesters to walk further into the street, saying they were OK with a calm protest but would arrest anyone who disrupted traffic. The confrontation was quelled quickly, however, with people agreeing to keep the gathering peaceful.    "We aren't out here to insult anybody, we’re here to get our families back,” Rafi Yousuf, 21, of Warren told the Free Press.
193	adjudicated	3	Detroit — Relatives, advocates and lawmakers rallied Friday outside of the Patrick V. McNamara Federal Building against the deportation of more than 100 Iraqi-American immigrants arrested in raids last weekend.   Event organizers contend sending the majority-Chaldean detainees to Iraq will put them in jeopardy of genocide by ISIS for being Christians.  “We want to make sure that people are aware of the human rights catastrophe that’s unfolding here,” said Martin Manna, 45, a rally organizer and president of the Sterling Heights-based Chaldean Community Foundation.  “How can our country violate laws and send people to places they can be harmed and killed,” he added. “It’s basic human rights.”  Manna said Friday the group is asking that the process be slowed and that special consideration is given to the group, he said, have contributed to the metropolitan Detroit society.  The immigrants being held were chosen for their past felony history. For most, supporters said, the offenses date back decades and the individuals have served their sentence.  U.S. Reps. Sander Levin, D-Royal Oak, and Brenda Lawrence, D-Southfield, joined the group in Detroit Friday to protest the deportations.  “There’s no real threat here. These crimes committed decades ago are the only reason the government knows where they are because they followed orders and reported to courts all those years,” said Levin, adding U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security John F. Kelly has said federal authorities are focused on “the worst of the worst.”  Levin said spoke with federal immigration authorities this week and is seeking a copy of the written agreement between the United States government and Iraq, as well as measures to confirm the detainees’ safety.  One of them is Yani Daoud, a resident of Warren who was arrested Monday at his home. His sister, Susie David, 48, said Daoud is married with kids and unknowingly signed deportation papers ordered by a judge without a lawyer present.   “He had a felony with weed and did six months and did everything right,” David said. “I feel so sorry for all of them. His birthday is Wednesday…he’ll be 40.”  Sam Hamama was picked up by ICE on his way to church with family on Sunday. His daughter Britanny, 20, and wife, Nahrain, spoke at the rally.  “He was taken for a felony committed 30 years ago. He knows nothing but America,” Nahrain said. “We’re not Iraqis, we’re Americans.”  Meantime, a hearing is expected Wednesday in U.S. District Court over a class-action lawsuit filed Thursday by the American Civil Liberties Union. The group is asking a federal judge to halt removal of the detainees until its determined whether they are entitled to protection.  The ACLU, in the lawsuit against Immigration and Customs Enforcement, argues it’s illegal to deport the detainees without giving them an opportunity to prove they could face torture or death if returned to Iraq.  Federal immigration authorities have defended the arrests, saying that all of those rounded up had been convicted of crimes and were subject to deportation.  Another rally is set for 3 p.m. Sunday at Nelson Park, 2775 15 Mile Road, in Sterling Heights.
194	adjudicated	3	As the sun beat down Saturday on people in Detroit protesting President Donald Trump’s immigration policies, Michele Marine wore a long green jacket.  The words on the back of it said: “I REALLY DO CARE, DO U?”  Michele Marine, 54, of Royal Oak wears a jacket with the quote, "I really do care do you?" She was at Hart Plaza during the Families Belong Together rally in downtown Detroit on Saturday, June 30, 2018. Marine, 54, of Royal Oak donned the coat as temperatures soared into the 90s and said it was a take on one worn recently by first lady Melania Trump during her trip to a children's shelter in Texas. Hers read: "I REALLY DON'T CARE, DO U."  “For me to be uncomfortable for a couple of hours is nothing compared to the families who are uncomfortable for a lifetime due to this administration’s policies,” Marine said. “We’ve got to fight to keep families together.”     She joined hundreds of people outside the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center and at Hart Plaza who marched, chanted, waved homemade signs and criticized immigration policies that have left children separated from their parents.  People gather to protest President President Donald Trump's zero tolerance immigration policy during the Families Belong Together rally in downtown Detroit on Saturday, June 30, 2018. Similar demonstrations were held throughout the state and across the country Saturday. Tens of thousands of people participated in Families Belong Together rallies to protest and encourage people to vote in November's midterm elections.  In April, a new zero-tolerance policy prompted U.S. immigration officials to begin separating minor children from parents after they crossed the border. After public outrage, Trump signed an order stopping the separations, but some children remain apart from their parents..
195	adjudicated	2	MONTPELIER - More than two dozen protesters showed support Monday for two immigrant dairy farmers arrested after marching to a Ben & Jerry’s factory to call for better pay and living conditions on farms that provide milk to the ice cream maker.  Mexican immigrants Yesenia Hernandez-Ramos and Esau Peche-Ventura were arrested Saturday and were being held on immigration charges, the Vermont Department of Corrections said.  Scores of dairy farm workers and activists marching in Montpelier, Vt., on Saturday June, 17, 2017. They were marching to the main Ben & Jerry's factory in the Vermont town of Waterbury to protest what they feel are slow negotiations to reach a deal on their "Milk with Dignity" program that would ensure fair wages and living conditions. Ben & Jerry's spokesman Sean Greenwood says the company is committed to reaching a deal with workers. U.S. Border Patrol representatives said the farmworkers were stopped by an agent during a routine check near the U.S.-Canada border.  RELATED:Scores of farm workers, activists march on Ben & Jerry’s  "They appeared to the agent to have come across the border," said Brad Brant, special operations supervisor at the Border Patrol station in Swanton.  "As part of routine operations, the agent stopped the vehicle and during questioning determined the occupants may be illegally present in the U.S.," the U.S. Border Patrol said in a statement provided by spokeswoman Stephanie Malin. "The two occupants were taken to the Border Patrol station for further investigation where they were arrested for immigration violations."  The pair was turned over to the Enforcement and Removal Operations unit of the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.   RELATED:   Dismissed charge. Still jailed. Here's why. Released Migrant Justice workers speak out at BTV rally Activists march on Ben & Jerry's The immigrant rights group Migrant Justice said the farmworkers were arrested as they were returning to the farm where they work and live in Franklin County.  Protesters demonstrated Monday afternoon outside a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in St. Albans and in the morning at a correctional facility in South Burlington where Hernandez-Ramos was being held.  “We were there to denounce the arrest of Esau and Yesenia and to call on ICE to use their discretion to release them back to their families, back to their community so they can continue to live and work in Vermont and continue to raise their voice for their dignity and human rights,” said Will Lambek, an organizer for Migrant Justice.  The state has about 1,000 Latino farm workers working or seeking work, and many are in the country illegally.  Migrant Justice says several of its leaders have been targeted for arrest by ICE in the past year.  The boundary marker cut into the forest marks the line between Canadian territory on the right and Vermont on the left. Among them were Enrique Balcazar and Zully Palacios, who protested Monday. They were arrested in March and released later that month.  Lambek said a lawyer had met with Hernandez-Ramos and Peche-Ventura on Monday.  A Ben & Jerry’s spokesman said Saturday before scores of dairy farm workers and activists marched 13 miles from the Statehouse to the Waterbury factory that the company was eager to reach an agreement with farm workers, and negotiations were underway.  Members of Migrant Justice demonstrate outside the Ben & Jerry’s scoop shop in Burlington during the ice cream company’s Free Cone Day on Tuesday, April 4, 2017. The Milk with Dignity program was created in 2014 by farmworkers and Migrant Justice to ensure that farms provide them fair wages and working conditions and decent housing. In 2015, Ben & Jerry’s agreed to join the program. Since then, the two sides have been negotiating over the details.  Ben & Jerry’s released a statement Monday in response to the arrests:   “We are concerned that hard-working, productive members of our community, who contribute to the success of dairy farms in Vermont, would face criminalization,” it said. “We need policy change that serves Vermont’s dairy workers, farmers, and industry as a whole.”
196	adjudicated	4	While getting ready to head over to the "Keep Families Together" rally protesting the Trump administration's immigration and family separation policies on Saturday, June 30, I made sure I was prepared for the 90-plus degree weather. Water bottle, straw hat — check. But then it occurred to me that maybe I should carry my passport just in case I have to prove I'm a citizen.  It's come down to that. Who knows if there would be agents in the crowd, or some kind of roundup taking place? The day before nearly 600 people had been arrested at the Women Disobey rally in Washington, D.C. That's something people, particularly dark skinned people, have to think about these days. I grew up watching movies in which scary sounding Nazi Gestapo agents were always asking for somebody's "papers." More and more often I make sure I have my papers on me when I'm moving about.  As it turned out, when I joined some 1,200 to 1,500 people at Clark Park in the heart of Detroit's historically Hispanic neighborhood I didn't need a passport — although it seemed that from the number of people carrying signs that those might be required. And if you didn't have a sign, you could easily get one or help someone else hold up their banner.  LARRY GABRIEL Larry Gabriel The program featured a number of great speakers on a number of aspects of this Trumpian offensive against immigrants and a number of citizens. There were three children whose mother has been deported who graced the stage along with a number of others activists. While those were crucial statements, it seemed that everybody there had something to say. There were fervent speeches being made on every placard and banner on display there. Well, some of it was on people's attire, such as the "I really do care, do you?" response to Melania Trump's "don't care" jacket.   TOP STORIES  25 YEARS AGO, A JOE LOUIS BLOODBATH HELPED PROPEL THE DETROIT RED WINGS INTO A GLORIOUS ERA But it was the signs that made the statements of the day. One delightful rendering said it all so eloquently in one word: "RUMP." A simple deconstruction of his name placed the president exactly in the part of the anatomy where so many feel he belongs. Short even by Twitter standards, I have to admire the ability to communicate in shorthand (or with small hands).  LARRY GABRIEL Larry Gabriel "IMMIGRANTS MAKE AMERICA GREAT" was another wonderful sentiment. This gets into some testy territory, because not only do immigrants make America great, but immigrants made America, period. Were it not for immigrants, this country would not exist. Apparently immigration is only all right if it happened a long time ago, and the immigrants were from Europe.  Had the Native Americans had a policy like the ones coming from Washington, D.C. these days, they would have sent those Euro adventurers right back where they came from. Instead, they trusted some of the most vicious, violent, and greedy people in the world — and paid for it dearly by nearly getting wiped off the face of the earth. And speaking of Trump's suggestion that Mexico is sending criminals here — well, the British sent criminals here on the Mayflower among the Pilgrims.Speaking of Native Americans, one sign printed with "A NATION OF LAWS" detailed laws "that we regret" — such as the Indian Removal Act of 1830, the fugitive Slave act of 1850, and Public Law 503 of 1942 (Japanese internment). All of this goes to show that acts of unspeakable cruelty can all be very legal. George Zimmerman, the man who killed teenager Trayvon Martin in 2012, stood on sympathetic legal ground due to Florida's stand-your-ground law. As another sign pointed out, "Everything HITLER did in Germany was legal." Hmmm.  LARRY GABRIEL Larry Gabriel Moving on, "ICE BELONGS in the FREEZE" was a very popular sentiment. In fact ICE caught a lot of comments, with signs reading "NO to ICE," "Melt ICE, Not Icecaps," and the punchy "No WALL, No JAIL, No ICE." On a day that was so hot I wanted ice, I had to remind myself that this ICE is the Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency that has been cruelly separating children from their parents when they come to the border seeking asylum. A terrible thing — or as one sign reminded us, "This is not normal, This is not okay."There was a great conversation going on with the signs, though one of the most welcome signs on this sweltering day of action was "Free lemonade + voter registration." That pretty much works in tandem with those that read, "Remember their cries in November," and "make your voice count, VOTE." Those point to the strongest solution we have at hand — vote for people who oppose the Trump administration's policies in this fall's election. Vote, vote, vote. The best way to beat the vote suppressors is to get up and vote.  LARRY GABRIEL Larry Gabriel And just to remind us of the immorality of the problem we are facing, one sign put it this way, "Heaven help the man who kicks the man who has to crawl." As it stands now, it could be a case of heaven help us. That help will come in the form of a wall of voters standing between us and the Rump.
197	adjudicated	3	WEST MICHIGAN - In Grand Rapids, Holland, Muskegon, Kalamazoo, Battle Creek and other cities across the country, people rallied in the Families Belong Together protest.  Despite a heat index of over 100 degrees, groups gathered across West Michigan and there were at least 22 demonstrations in Michigan and hundreds nationwide.   In Grand Rapids, event organizers estimate that there were over 600 people who gathered in Rosa Parks Circle. Organizers also passed out a petition to end Kent County's contract with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) for detaining undocumented immigrants.  "When there's human rights violations, when our country's identity is being challenged, I think our leaders -- it's their role to step up to the plate and do what's right," said Sergio Cira-Reyes, an co-organizer of the Grand Rapids rally.  In Holland, the protesters marched around Centennial Park, holding signs and singing.   And in Muskegon, protestors chanted: "Who cares?" "We care!"  The national protest was held in Washington D.C. at Lafayette Square across from the White House. The marches also called on people to vote in November's midterm elections.  According to the event's organizers, the protest was "demanding that we reunite families and end family separation and detention." It was scheduled in response to the news that ICE was separating families at the Mexican-American border as a result of the zero-tolerance policy enacted by the Trump administration.  More than 2,000 children were separated from their families, and they are now being held at over 100 sites in 17 states.  President Trump ended up signing an executive order on June 20, ending the practice of separating families in order to prosecute immigrants crossing the border. On June 26, a federal judge has ordered that children should be reunited with their families within 30 days.  The marches were still held on Saturday to call for families to be reunited and to protest current immigration policy.
198	adjudicated	2	MINNEAPOLIS (WCCO) — Rather than escape the sun and the heat, an estimated 7,000 people (according to Minneapolis Police) embraced the hot weather downtown to let their voices be heard.  “This is democracy, this is what it looks like,” said participant Joe Jullie of Eden Prairie.  CBS News MN’s Morning Update: March 30, 2022 READ MORE: Raptors Rout Timberwolves 125-102 “There’s a whole lot we need to do to with America to get it back right and make it fair and justice for all,” said participant John Surrency.   Groups representing several causes were united over the idea that immigrant parents shouldn’t have their children taken away at the U.S.-Mexico border. The rally/march, named “Keep Families Together” and “Free Our Future,” focused primarily on the recent separation of families happening due of the Trump administration’s zero tolerance policy. They also want to make sure those same families are reunited.  As thousands gathered outside the Minneapolis Convention Center, the march began at 2 p.m.   Near the front on top of a truck bed was a cage, representing where immigrant children were placed once separated from their families.  READ MORE: Tiny Minnesota Town Art School Renowned For Teaching Scandinavian Folk Art Organizers blocked traffic, sometimes leaving drivers waiting 10 minutes or more before they could pass through an intersection. Others marching carried around spray bottles to help people cool off in the sweltering heat.  A three-mile march was the plan, crossing over light rail tracks before stopping outside the Hennepin County Jail. Organizers said it’s a place where families have also been torn apart with some people being deported.  But as they looked in the distance at the seemingly never-ending crowd, they’d never felt more united.  “I saw all my brothers and sisters going around the corner and it brings so much joy, so much happiness to see everybody in solidarity just sticking together and fighting together,” said Yunuen Avila after giving a speech to the crowd.  The convention center was their finish line, but those marching say the push for change will keep going.  MORE NEWS: Hennepin Co. Attorney's Office Asks To Remove Judge Koch From Felony Cases For 'Frequently Abandoning His Neutral Role' Organizer Emilia Gonzalez Avalos said people need to be, “willing to build the nation, the great nation that we all believe in. And we have to build together.”
199	adjudicated	4	JACKSON, MI - Protesters and counter-protesters braved the heat Saturday in Jackson to express their views on President Donald Trump's immigration policy.  The "Families Belong Together" rally in Jackson took place at U.S. Rep. Tim Walberg's office, 401 W. Michigan Ave. A total of 160 people protested the Trump administration policy that has separated children from families. They were met by about 15 counter-protesters supporting the 45th president.   "Even though we were interrupted by counter-protesters, the fact we had the majority shows there's great concern for this (issue) in our community," said Heather Herrera, event organizer.  While the protesters planned to occupy the parking lot of Walberg's office, they were met by a group of Trump supporters. The Trump supporters hoisted American flags and blasted music, while the immigration protesters shouted chants such as "Shame on You" and "Love, not hate, makes America great."  The protesters moved across the street to the area of the Women of Service Military Monument, where speeches began.     Terri McKinnon, a Jackson Democrat running for the 65th District state House of Representative seat, and Steven Friday, a Democrat running for Michigan's 7th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives, spoke at the rally.  McKinnon said all citizens in the U.S. are children of immigrants. She also said protesters should reach out to elected officials.  "We have to let them know we will not accept this," McKinnon said. "We will fight."  The protesters then marched eastbound on East Michigan Avenue to the front of the Carnegie Library, 244 W. Michigan Ave. After some speeches, the counter-protesters, including a man towing the "Trump Unity Bridge" halted traffic on East Michigan Avenue, leading to more chants and confrontation from protesters.   The rally ended after the counter-protesters departed and the protesters dispersed from the library. Herrera said she encouraged those in attendance to head to Lansing and attend their "Families Belong Together" rally.   Marcy Jankovich said she and other Trump supporters want the U.S. borders secure.  Trump signed an executive order June 20 ending his administration's policy of separating children from their families who entered the U.S. illegally. A U.S. District Court judge in California granted a preliminary injunction that orders all separated children to be united with their families within 30 days and 14 days for children under age 5.  The Jackson protest was one of many that took place June 30 throughout the U.S. and in Michigan, including in Ann Arbor and Grand Rapids.
200	adjudicated	4	This story has been updated to reflect that Jen Strebs is a member of Kalamazoo progressive organization ProKzoo and that Kalamazoo County has cancelled its Commission meeting for July 3.  With temperatures in the 90s and the sun blazing, hundreds of people gathered in Kalamazoo's Bronson Park on Saturday to call for changes to U.S. immigration laws and policy.   The "Families Belong Together" rally focused on the Trump administration's recent practice of separating immigrant children from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico Border. But some demonstrators carried signs calling for Immigration and Customs Enforcement to be not just abolished, but "prosecuted."   Jen Strebs, a Kalamazoo Township trustee and a member of Kalamazoo progressive group ProKzoo, which helped to organize the rally, called for Kalamazoo County Sheriff Rick Fuller to pledge non-cooperation with ICE. She urged the crowd to turn out for a Kalamazoo County Commission meeting this Tuesday, where a resolution on border separations is on the agenda. UPDATE: The County Commission has cancelled its July 3 meeting due to a train derailment in downtown Kalamazoo.  Strebs opened the event by noting that the land that is now Bronson Park was taken from the Pottawatomi. "No one is illegal on stolen land," read one sign.   Other posters addressed the theme of family separations: "Kidnapping is illegal," "Children should not be pawns" and "Twinkle, twinkle, little star, are they sleeping near or far?" While Trump has signed an order ending the policy, thousands of children have not been returned to their parents.  When asked what brought him to the rally, Kalamazoo Public Schools teacher Alfredo Aleman spoke of his elementary school students, many of whom he says are immigrants. But he also spoke about his parents.  "My dad was an undocumented worker. So was my mom, right after World War II. He was thrown back across to Mexico with my mom as well. My mom almost drowned in the Rio Grande River and she tells me these stories as we're watching the current events unfold on television," he said.  "It's very heart-wrenching for her as well as well as myself because I see the emotions that arise in her and I can't imagine that here we are, revisiting this again in 2018," he added.  Aleman said he hoped that people from all political parties would recognize that "children are children."  A Kalamazoo woman named Jen who was staffing the cool-down tent echoed that hope. Jen did not give her last name because, she said, she might have issues with her employer.   "I'm a mom. I have kids, I cannot imagine not knowing where they are or if they're okay, and not knowing if I'll ever see them again. So for me, it's very simple," she said.  At the end of the rally, a woman waved to demonstrators from a window at First Congregational Church: Saheeda Nadeem, a Pakistani woman who faces a deportation order for overstaying her visa. Nadeem raised her children in Kalamazoo and one of them is buried here. She has been living at the church since March in the hopes of avoiding removal.
201	adjudicated	3	About 120 people held a march and rally in downtown Santa Rosa on Thursday afternoon, protesting federal immigration policies they say are separating thousands of children from parents seeking asylum in the United States. The demonstration was part of a coordinated effort in ?50 cities across the country. Organizers said more than 5,000 people had signed up to join the Families Belong Together rallies, aimed at halting one of the most widely debated new fronts in the Trump administration’s campaign to slow the flow of migrants across the southwest border from Mexico and Central America. Protesters marched from Old Courthouse Square to the John F. Shea Federal Building and back, calling on Congress to block the U.S. Attorney General’s decision to prosecute parents who cross the border illegally, including many seeking asylum. Such criminal prosecutions result in children being taken from their parents. The children are often sent to foster homes or held in detention camps, the advocates said. “The separation of kids from parents is really grotesque - that’s got to be a human rights violation,” said Richard Coshnear, a local immigration attorney who heads Comité VIDA, a volunteer immigrant rights organization. Family separations increased sharply this spring after the Justice Department began implementing a “zero tolerance” policy for people entering the country illegally. Under the directive, announced in May, families crossing the border are routinely referred for criminal prosecution. Previously, families were often sent to civil deportation proceedings, which allow children to stay with their parents. During the criminal proceedings, the children are usually released to other family members or foster care. The local march and rally were organized by Comité VIDA and the Graton Day Labor Center. Shannon McClain, a marketing specialist from New York who helped coordinate the nationwide campaign, said “Our goal is to shine a light on the … trauma that family separation inflicts on these children and their families and how wrong and, frankly un-American that is.” McClain said she began planning for the rallies after learning about the campaign on Twitter. Interest in the event grew exponentially, she said, as volunteers, many of them outraged mothers, jumped in to help.
202	adjudicated	1	[Image: Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups telling SB4 supporters to "Go Home" as their groups are gathering at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind and exchange chants with the anti-SB4 supporters.] 1of20Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups telling SB4 supporters to "Go Home" as their groups are gathering at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind and exchange chants with the anti-SB4 supporters.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle  [Image: Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind.] 2of20Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle 3of20  [Image: Proud Boys members gather at Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters across the street at Houston City Hall Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston.] 4of20Proud Boys members gather at Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters across the street at Houston City Hall Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle  [Image: A Texas Patriot Network member, who wish not to give their names, watches anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gathering at Houston City Hall for a rally from Tranquillity Park Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston.] 5of20A Texas Patriot Network member, who wish not to give their names, watches anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gathering at Houston City Hall for a rally  from Tranquillity Park Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle 6of20  [Image: Proud Boys member Ken, who wishes not to give his last name, carries a Texas flag at Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters across the street at Houston City Hall Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at city hall for a rally to speak their mind.] 7of20Proud Boys member Ken, who wishes not to give his last name, carries a Texas flag at Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters across the street at Houston City Hall Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at city hall for a rally to speak their mind.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle  [Image: Leobardo Santillan, a member of Mexicanos en Acci—n, raises a sign while anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind.] 8of20Leobardo Santillan, a member of Mexicanos en Acci—n, raises a sign while anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle 9of20  [Image: Proud Boys member Ken, who wishes not to give his last name, carries a Texas flag stands out from the rest at Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters across the street at Houston City Hall Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at city hall for a rally to speak their mind.] 10of20Proud Boys member Ken, who wishes not to give his last name, carries a Texas flag stands out from the rest at Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters across the street at Houston City Hall Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at city hall for a rally to speak their mind.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle  [Image: Cassandra Lindsey raises a sign while anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind.] 11of20Cassandra Lindsey raises a sign while anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle 12of20  [Image: Proud Boys member Ken, who wishes not to give his last name, carries a Texas flag stands out from the rest at Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters across the street at Houston City Hall Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at city hall for a rally to speak their mind.] 13of20Proud Boys member Ken, who wishes not to give his last name, carries a Texas flag stands out from the rest at Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters across the street at Houston City Hall Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at city hall for a rally to speak their mind.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle  [Image: An anti-Senate Bill 4 supporter chants while similar-minded groups gather at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind.] 14of20An anti-Senate Bill 4 supporter chants while similar-minded groups gather at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle 15of20  [Image: A Socialist Alternative-Houston member, who wishes not to give his name, raises a sign while anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind.] 16of20A Socialist Alternative-Houston member, who wishes not to give his name, raises a sign while anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle  [Image: A Texas Patriot Network member, right, greets Proud Boys member Ken, who wishes not to give his last name, as they arrive Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters at Houston City Hall across the street Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston.] 17of20A Texas Patriot Network member, right, greets Proud Boys member Ken, who wishes not to give his last name, as they arrive Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters at Houston City Hall across the street Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle 18of20  [Image: Proud Boys member Ken, who wishes not to give his last name, carries a Texas flag at Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters across the street at Houston City Hall Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at city hall for a rally to speak their mind.] 19of20Proud Boys member Ken, who wishes not to give his last name, carries a Texas flag at Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters across the street at Houston City Hall Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at city hall for a rally to speak their mind.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle 20of20  Dueling groups of armed protesters chanted and gave speeches Saturday outside Houston City Hall, sparring over immigration and police brutality even as the nation reeled from violence at a white nationalist rally in Virginia hours earlier.  Around 50 protesters from a left-leaning coalition read poems near Hermann Square and sang to voice their opposition to Senate Bill 4, while across the street about 15 counter-protesters from the Texas Patriot Network and Proud Boys chanted and waved a Texas flag.  "This is a protest against SB4, against police brutality and against the threat of fascism," said Houston Socialist Movement organizer David Michael Smith, who showed up armed and wearing a red hammer-and-sickle shirt emblazoned with an outline of Texas.  "Both of these things today are growing in significance and take on additional weight because of the threat from the far right, something that you see with open Nazis in the streets in Charlottesville, Virginia today," he said.  Across the street, conservative counter-protesters, some wearing camouflage, and others wearing Make America Great Again hats, offered a smattering of dissenting opinions, affirming their support for police and for SB4, the so-called "sanctuary cities" legislation. The law, signed by the governor in May, gives police officers new authority to question a detained person's immigration status and blocks local governments from passing laws that would prohibit such question.  "We're here to show our congressmen, our Senate and all of our police that we stand behind them enforcing the laws," said Jeremy Brooks of the Texas Patriot Network.  When asked if he'd still support Houston police Chief Art Acevedo in light of his opposition to SB4, Brooks said he supported the chief's right to his own opinion.  "It's his job to enforce the law. Whether or not he agrees with them, guess what, he has to enforce the law," he added.  "How would you feel if he said, 'You know what? I drink, I like alcohol so I'm going to allow people to take to the streets drinking and driving because I choose not to enforce that law."  Fellow counter-protester Laura Lee echoed Brooks' concerns. "We don't support racism or inequality, but we want our laws followed," she said. "Illegals are not immigrants. They're breaking the law to be here."  For much of the protest, left-leaning groups ignored their opponents across the street.  "We always come here peacefully and they always come hard," Leobardo Santillan said in Spanish. "We are tired of that intimidation. We are tired of the border watch and the rednecks and now some of ours had to come armed because we are responding in the same form. So they can see we are not afraid."  At times, the protesters converged at a police barrier along Walker, briefly trading barbs before police calmed the crowd.  As the afternoon wore on, the situation degenerated to juvenile taunts, with one anti-immigration activist hurling fat-shaming insults while those on the left stared back in stony silence.
203	adjudicated	4	About 100 people, many of them families, rallied at the state Capitol Tuesday afternoon calling for protection of DACA, the federal policy that allows people brought to the United States illegally as children to remain in the country.  Graciela Pacheco, originally from Oaxaca, Mexico, was among those hoping the federal Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, remains in effect. She is a single mother of a 16-year-old daughter who was brought to the United States when she was 7 months old.   "Even though she wasn't born here, she has been raised here," Pacheco said, speaking in Spanish. "She doesn't know anything, any (other) places that she calls home."   DACA, an executive order implemented in June 2012 under then-President Barack Obama's administration, allows people without serious criminal records, who were illegally brought to the United States as children, to seek temporary protection from deportation and renewable two-year work permits.  Arizona has nearly 28,000 DACA recipients. But those recipients have been wary of a recent ongoing move among some Republicans wanting to revoke a policy that has protected more than 800,000 DACA recipients nationwide from deportation.   President Donald Trump so far has allowed the program to continue, despite increasing pressure from critics of the policy.  "We are here to resist! We are here to stay! DACA! DACA! DACA!" the crowd at Tuesday's Phoenix rally chanted repeatedly, as a dozen people, mostly from Mexico, were filling out DACA applications on the side.  Gratitude for DACA  Karen De Ca Fuente, 22, was among those who spoke at the rally.   An Arizona State University senior studying supply-chain management, she was an early beneficiary of DACA.   After coming to the United States when she was 9 years old, she said DACA has guaranteed her education.   "Thanks to DACA, I have been able to move, enter ASU," she said. "When I graduated high school, I was not able to go (to college) because I did not have the finances and I was considered an out-of-state student, which almost tripled my tuition."   But because of DACA, she's been able to attend ASU with in-state tuition and expects to graduate next year.   Eder Fernando Rosas Pimentel, 31, who also spoke at the rally, came to the United States when he was 5 with his aunt and uncle, hoping it would be a permanent move for him.    He said DACA allowed him to stay and pursue his education at Phoenix College.   "(The) thing that I value the most (from DACA) is that I am free from deportation," he said. "Right now, I don't have to worry about anybody deporting me, and that's honestly one of the best feelings that you can have — to no longer have to live in fear."    The rally was sponsored by the Arizona Center for Empowerment, Living United for Change in Arizona, Undocumented Students for Education Equity and Arizona Dream Act Coalition.   Edder Diaz-Martinez, a DACA recipient and an ASU student studying journalism, was one of the founding members of Undocumented Students for Education Equity at ASU.  "We are organizing students at ASU, all the DACA recipients, to push Arizona State University to give us protection, if this program is removed and if they don't want to give us in-state tuition any longer," he said.
204	adjudicated	2	"Protesters turned out in Fairfield County and throughout the nation on Saturday to demand that the Trump administration reunite the divided families created by its “zero tolerance” immigration policy.  Hundreds attended a ""Families Belong Together"" rally in Stamford.  Many of the protesters carried signs, among them"" ""Families Belong Together,"" ""Separation Anxiety,"" ""Nobody Puts Babies In A Cage,"" and ""We Care.""  Organizers said there were more than 700 protests in all 50 states.  The main protest nationally occurred at Lafayette Square opposite the White House.     Some protesters called for the elimination of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency.  President Trump tweeted his support of ICE during the rallies, writing on Twitter,  ""To the great and brave men and women of ICE, do not worry or lose your spirit. You are doing a fantastic job of keeping us safe by eradicating the worst criminal elements.  ""So brave! The radical left Dems want you out. Next it will be all police. Zero chance, It will never happen!""  Click here to sign up for Daily Voice's free daily emails and news alerts."
205	adjudicated	4	More than 100 people rallied in locations across New Jersey on Thursday to protest a new "zero tolerance" policy of immigration enforcement that has led to the separation of children from parents caught illegally crossing the southern border, nearly 2,000 miles away.  A group of concerned citizens gathered at Rutherford Congregational Church before marching down Union Ave. The group participated in a national day of rallies and protests organized by activists behind Families Belong Together. The group is protesting the Trump administration's policy of separating parents and their children crossing the border for asylum. Thursday, June 14, 2018. About 50 marchers gathered at the Rutherford Congregational Church at noon, armed with signs that read "Don't Separate Families" and "Children belong with their Families." Then they walked nearly 2 miles to the Rutherford train station chanting, "Say it loud, say it clear, immigrants are welcomed here."   "I was crying when I got here,'' Patricia Dahlman of Lyndhurst said after she arrived at the church at the end of the march, still reeling from news reports on the separated families. "It's a sad situation our country is in. We need to do these walks; we need to stand up to Trump and his people."   A group of concerned citizens gathered outside of Rutherford Congregational Church to participate in a national day of rallies and protests organized by activists behind Families Belong Together on Thursday, June 14th, 2018. The group is protesting the Trump administration's policy of separating parents and their children crossing the border. The walk and similar events in Highland Park and Princeton were part of a nationwide day of action denouncing the administration's hard-line approach to immigration enforcement.  Immigration:How many unaccompanied migrant children have come to New Jersey?  Enforcement:Delivery man detained by ICE being held at the Hudson County jail  Airport issue:14 New Jersey women alleging anti-Muslim bias at Newark Airport security  Attorney General Jeff Sessions said last month that children would be detained separately rather than with their parents, as was the practice under previous presidents. The Trump administration described the new policy as a tougher approach that would serve as a deterrent to families seeking to enter the country illegally. President Donald Trump has expressed frustration over illegal border crossings, which have increased in recent months.  Administration officials said the aim is to prosecute everyone who is caught entering the country illegally.   By Wednesday, the government was housing more than 1,400 immigrant boys who had been separated from their parents inside a former Walmart store in Texas. The government also has plans to build tent cities at military installations around Texas to house unaccompanied migrant children, according to news reports.  Marchers on Thursday said the policy was cruel and not in keeping with the nation's values. Some said they had seen the images of the children in the former Walmart, which reporters were allowed to tour this week, and that they felt compelled to show their opposition to the separations.  Approximately 50 people gathered in Rutherford Thursday June 14, 2018, for a "Families Belong Together" rally to protest a new policy that calls for children to be separated from parents after they enter the country illegally. "I just thought that this is the kind of thing we have to stop, and I've been feeling helpless for a while at the things that are going on, and the people who are in a position to stop these things are not stopping them,'' said Chris Rywalt of Wood-Ridge, a father of three. "And so if this is what we have to do, this is what we have to do. If I could drive down there and chain myself to something, I would."  In Highland Park, about 75 people converged at the corner of Raritan and South Adelaide Avenues for a rally sponsored by the Reformed Church of Highland Park, which has offered refuge to asylum seekers. Participants there carried placards that read "Refugees Welcome" and "We Stand for Peace."   A rally for "Families belong Together" held in Highland Park on Thursday, June 14, 2018,  to protest the separation of children from their parents at the southwest border. Among the speakers was Jocelyn Pangemanan, 15, who was separated from her father, Harry, this year when he took refuge at the church to avoid detectionand possible deportation. She said it was painful to be apart from her father, who has since returned home to his family after a federal immigration judge temporarily blocked his deportation.   “Me being separated from my father is not something I want to stand for, and I don’t want other children to feel this kind of pain of being scared every day that their father, their mother, their family is going to be deported and separated from them with no chance of coming home,” said Jocelyn, a U.S. citizen. “We can’t let the government separate families again. We have to stand together to help these parents stay in America with their children without being separated from them.”    The Rev. Seth Kaper-Dale, the co-pastor of Reformed Church of Highland Park, called for New Jersey to implement measures to protect families who might be targeted by immigration officers. His church has hosted several rallies supporting undocumented immigrants.  "We cannot, and will not, stand by as children are literally ripped away from their parents,'' Rep. Frank Pallone, D-Long Branch, said in a statement that was read aloud at the ceremony. "This is not a one-time event, either, but is instead a systematic policy to terrify anyone looking to come to the United States regardless of their need of asylum. "  Samantha Boose, 35, of Montclair brought her 4-year-old daughter, Charlotte, to the march in Rutherford and held her close afterward. She said she could not imagine being separated from her daughter.   "There's a general feeling among moms and parents, just parents in general, that this is outrageous, and that my child could never survive without me and that children are not criminals, nor do they have the capacity to be,'' Boose said.   She said she had spoken to her daughter about the reason they had to march.  Genevieve Deely brought her daughter, Hope Deely, 8 months to Rutherford Congregational Church to participate in a national day of rallies and protests organized by activists behind Families Belong Together. The group is protesting the Trump administration's policy of separating parents and their children crossing the border for asylum. Thursday, June 14, 2018. "I told her children deserved to be with their moms and dads, and they deserve to be safe,'' she said.   The Rev. Ron Verblaauw, the pastor of the church, said the interest in the protest grew as the word got out via social media. He said it fit with the denomination's theme this year of loving children, loving neighbors, and loving creation.   Andrea Long, the donor relations manager for American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey and a congregant of the church, organized the march after she talked to others who were upset about the policy.   "We don't march in Rutherford very often, but there is a lot of interest and concern, and I feel great about this turnout considering its noon on a Thursday,'' she said. "This is an issue that touches a lot of people, it clearly has struck a nerve, and people want to do what they can because this is not what America is about."
206	adjudicated	1	Several hundred people, including many young families with children, gathered outside Brooklyn Borough Hall Thursday to protest the widely criticized Trump administration policy of separating children from their families when they migrate across the U.S. border.  Signs read “Trump’s USA: Child Concentration Camp,” “End Family Separation” and “First They Came For the Toddlers!?” A wide variety of ages were represented in the crowd. Participants chanted slogans and sang “This Land Is Your Land.” A few, including a pediatric nurse, gave impromptu speeches. City Councilman Brad Lander chatted with some in the crowd.  The protest was one of dozens held around the country Thursday and called by a group named Families Belong Together.
207	adjudicated	2	Miriam Aukerman of the ACLU addresses a rally in support of people, many of them Iraqi immigrants, who have been detained by ICE. Ghada Babbie of Farmington Hills, wearing sunglasses, and her sister-in-law, Sonya Babbie, of Warren demonstrate for relative Bashar Babbie at a rally outside federal court Thursday in Detroit in support of Iraqis detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement.Jazzmin Jarbo, 6, of Shelby Township says she hopes the detainees get to come home soon.Ferial Marcus, right, of Madison Heights, Josephine Sliwa of Warren and Kristina Sanders of Oak Park demonstrate at the rally.U.S. Rep. Brenda Lawrence addresses a rally in support of immigrants who have been detained.At a rally outside the federal courthouse in Detroit Crystal Kassab Jabiro talks about the impact on the children of the people who have been detained. Sabria Pasha, left, of Sterling Heights, whose son is being detained, sits with Khiton Isaq of Troy at a rally in support of people who have been detained by ICE.People attend a rally in support of immigrants who have been detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents. 
208	adjudicated	3	Dozens of demonstrators took to the streets in Yonkers Monday to rally for the Westchester Immigrant Protection Act, one week before county lawmakers are due to vote to override County Executive Rob Astorino's veto of the proposal.  Their main target was county Legislator David Tubiolo, a Yonkers Republican and among five board members who voted against the bill last month.  "Tubiolo, escucha, estamos en la lucha," a crowd of about 50 demonstrators on McLean Avenue chanted, Spanish for "Tubiolo, listen, we're in the fight."   IMMIGRATION: Legal victory for "sanctuary cities" only the beginning for immigration battle  ASTORINO: Rob Astorino vetoes immigration bill  VETO: Astorino's veto of immigration bill likely to stand  "We are an immigrant county," said Charlotte Gossett Navarro, an organizer with the New York Immigration Coalition. "One in four residents is an immigrant and so we really need to make sure that our representatives and our law enforcement and every county agency is representing all of our residents."  "This act is good for public safety for all of our residents," she said.  Tubiolo did not return calls for comment.  The proposed immigration act, initially passed by the Westchester County Board of Legislators on Aug. 7, would limit information the county can share with federal authorities regarding immigrants in the county, and would limit what county law enforcement can ask regarding an individual's citizenship or immigration status.  The measure passed the 17-member county board by a 10-5 vote, with two legislators — Democrat Lyndon Williams of Mount Vernon and Margaret Cunzio, a Conservative Party member from Mount Pleasant — absent.   The board's eight other Democrats all voted in favor of the act, as did two Republican legislators, David Gelfarb of Rye and Jim Maisano of New Rochelle.   But Astorino vetoed the measure on Aug. 16. Legislators now need 12 votes at its Sept. 25 meeting to override the veto. Williams is expected to vote in favor of the act, leaving supporters just one vote shy.   Astorino argued that the act would "handcuff" county police officers and could prompt the White House to label the Westchester a "sanctuary" for immigrants that could cost the county $12.9 million in federal grants.  President Donald Trump and Congressional Republicans are pushing to withhold federal dollars from states and communities that choose to be come havens, or sanctuaries, for undocumented immigrants — a push currently stalled in federal court.  Westchester County Public Safety Commissioner contends the proposed Immigrant Protection Act would limit the county's ability to work with the FBI and other federal agencies, and called the proposal "a bad and reckless idea."   But supporters of the act, which include community leaders, immigration advocates and Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union, said it would strengthen the bond between immigrants and law enforcement.   The union represents 163,000 members on the East Coast, including about 4,000 in the Hudson Valley, said Franklin Soults, a spokesman for the union.  "The majority of them are immigrants," Soults said. "They’re janitors, they’re concierges, they’re superintendent in buildings. They're worried about how they're going to be treated by officials.”   The debate in Westchester comes amid a growing national debate on immigration, with the Trump administration pushing for stricter enforcement and increased deportations.  One key debate has been over the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrival, or DACA, program. A 2012 executive order by President Barack Obama, DACA grants two-year reprieves from deportation for undocumented immigrants who entered the county with their parents when they were children.  There are nearly 800,000 DACA recipients, who are known as "dreamers," in the country, and as many as 20,000 in the Hudson Valley.   Trump has given Congress until March to address the plight of the dreamers.   Earlier on Monday, U.S. Rep. Nita Lowey addressed the issue by hosting a roundtable discussion on the DACA program and its future. A panel of the region's top immigration, legal and government officials expressed the need for legislation to protect dreamers.  Immigration advocates have long lobbied for the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors, or DREAM Act, which has failed to pass both houses of Congress since first introduced in 2001.  The DREAM Act seeks a permanent solution to the dreamer's plight by enacting legislation that would give them legal residency and a path to citizenship.  Lowey, who is co-sponsor of the current DREAM Act bill, said Monday that she is optimistic a bipartisan compromise can be worked out.  "This fight is not just Latinos," Diana Sanchez, a dreamer and member of the Yonkers Sanctuary Movement, said during Monday's rally. "This fight is not black. This fight is not Asian, this fight is not Muslim, it's not LGTB. It's everyone's fight."  The rally included a march to St. Barnabas Church in the Bronx, Tubiolo's church.
209	adjudicated	2	Protests sprang up across the country on Thursday as Americans spoke out against a Trump administration policy of separating immigrant children away from their parents when families cross the U.S. border illegally.  Families are being split up as children are labeled "unaccompanied minors" and sent to government custody or foster care. The parents are criminally charged.  In Akron, about 200 people came out for the "Families Belong Together" protest. The demonstration was held at the corner of Main and Mill.  "Truly when we come together in this way, we're not just fighting for the rights of others, we're fighting for the rights of all, because it's when we come together in unity and inclusion that we experience to fuller spectrum of what it means to be human beings," Pastor Debbie Saxe of the First Christian Church Cuyahoga Falls said.  The Trump administration insists it is simply upholding the law, saying children cannot be sent to jail, so families must be separated.  Attorney General Jeff Sessions and White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders both cited the Bible in defending the zero-tolerance.  "I would cite you to the Apostle Paul and his clear and wise command in Romans 13, to obey the laws of the government because God has ordained the government his purposes," Sessions said.  "I can say that it is very biblical to enforce the law," Sanders said. "This is actually repeated a number of times throughout the bible."  Things got heated in the press briefing room on Thursday when reporters pushed Sanders to answer questions about the issue.  "Come on, Sarah, you're a parent. Don't you have any empathy for what these people are going through? They have less than you do," one reporter said.  Sanders, clearly frustrated, did not respond to the question and asked him not to speak out of turn.  
210	adjudicated	3	CHICAGO (CBS) -- Controversy over a sign sparked a protest in Wheaton Saturday, with organizers saying racism is not welcome in their community.  And CBS 2's Sandra Torres reports that dozens are fighting back to sternly show that "Wheaton welcomes all."  The protest was in response to recent reports that several signs welcoming immigrants to the community have been stolen from people's front yards.  "There has been a nerve that's been touched this week," said Angela D'onofrio, the protest's organizer. "We don't agree. That's not what Wheaton is about, and we want a diverse community."  Some point to a sign placed inside a former Vietnamese restaurant in downtown Wheaton as a further example. Although someone tried to cover it up, the sign reads, "We went back to Vietnam."  "To the naked eye, it looks like the owners of the restaurant put it up there, and they did not put that up there," Jessica Prewitt said, another one of the protest's organizers.  The restaurant owners relocated across the street. Their former landlord, Robert Sandberg, says he posted the sign because the owners owed him money and lied to him about moving to Vietnam.  "People were coming in here -- 'where did the Vietnamese restaurant go?' I said, 'they want to Vietnam' -- that's what we told them, and that's what I put on the sign," Sandberg said.  Protesters lined the intersection of Main and Front St., holding signs that read "Diversity is Our Strength" and "Love the Skin Your Neighbor's In."  Community members stressed the protest was more than just a landlord dispute. "Although we were initially sparked to organize based on troubling expressions of hate by one man, [the] event is about much more. We as a community reject racism, discrimination, bigotry, and hate in our community," the protest's official statement said.  Sandberg says people are telling him he's making it look as if Wheaton "hates Asians." Something he says is completely untrue.  Prewitt said she wants Sandberg to remove the sign and issue an apology. And if the sign is not removed, community members say they will continue to organize.  The owners of the restaurant did not participate in the protest, but issued a statement that said, in part:  "On behalf of the Luong-Loi Family, I want to thank Jessica and everyone here for their support and concern on this matter. Thank you to all our customers, the City of Wheaton, and the entire community for your continued support of our family and business.  "As for Mr. Sandburg and the "We went back to Vietnam" sign: We want to thank Mr. Sandburg for allowing Luong-Loi to lease his property for the past twenty-five plus years. We have no other obligations to Mr. Sandburg. In early of 2014 we saw that the building across the street was for sale by the City of Wheaton. We decided to invest in the community and purchased the building so that we could build out a new and nicer facility for our customers. Wheaton has always been a good home for us and we're excited to have a great customer base! My parents, Vien & Hong, and the entire Luong-Loi staff went to Vietnam with no tentative return date while I worked through renovations of the new building at 111 Main Street. Since we re-opened, our customers have given us a lot of positive feedback about our new building."
211	adjudicated	2	CINCINNATI -- Hundreds of protesters from both sides of the Ohio River gathered Thursday afternoon on the Roebling Bridge to share their outrage over stories of family separation emerging from a controversial Trump administration immigration policy.  "We do know this is a humanitarian crime, and we do know this is not how Americans treat children," organizer Nicole Klungle said.  The Trump administration's recently implemented "zero tolerance" immigration policy, which refers all adults who illegally enter the United States for prosecution regardless of their reason for entry, has resulted in more than 650 migrant children being separated from their parents and placed indefinitely in government-run shelters.   Hundreds of people are on the Roebling Bridge for the “Families Belong Together” rally. Cincinnati joins other protests across the country over a new immigration policy. The zero tolerance policy has separated hundreds of immigrant parents & children at the Southern border @WCPO pic.twitter.com/bPjYqRu3dX  — Ashley Zilka (@ashleyzilka) June 14, 2018  The stories emerging from its implementation are vivid -- a mother who claimed her baby was taken while she breastfed; asylum seekers fleeing gang violence and abuse being separated from their children; boys housed in a former Walmart receiving only two hours of outdoor time each day -- and have prompted rebuke from organizations including the United Nations human rights office and the American Civil Liberties Union.   "I know my kids are very upset when they don't know where I am at for 10 minutes, let alone for days on end -- weeks -- months," protester Heather Canner said. "We don't know where these people are coming from. The point of the United States is to be the beacon of light, of hope, we should have a little more empathy."  United States Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who enacted the policy and recently disqualified many asylum seekers from receiving protected status in the United States, argued in a June 5 interview that the policy was an effective deterrent for others considering illegal immigration and that migrants should "expect" to be separated from their families.  "It's legitimate to warn people who come to the country unlawfully, bringing children with them, that they can't expert that they'll always be kept together," he told conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt.  Klungle said she and other protesters don't buy it. Regardless of politics, she said, dividing families in this way is cruel.   "No parent would want any child to be treated that way," she said. "Even if you aren't a parent, you don't treat children that way. You don't treat human beings that way."  The new policy has resulted in such a swell of children being directed to government-run shelters that at least one new facility will be opened in response.  "Somebody has got to end it," West Chester resident Cathi Bridges said. "I will give my life to end it. I feel that strongly about it. I am so mad."
212	adjudicated	4	COLUMBUS (WCMH) — The March to End Family Separation happening in Columbus allows people to speak for immigrants who are afraid or cannot do so themselves.  Here in central Ohio Edith Espinal said this rally highlights what her fight is all about.  “Somebody needs to tell him, ‘don’t separate the families,'” said Espinal.   She said those are words she would tell the Trump administration.  She has been living in the Columbus Mennonite Church for eight months using it as her sanctuary from deportation.  She said it’s the only way she says she can keep her family together.  “I need to stay strong for my family,” said Edpinal.   That has not been easy for her.  Just one week ago Espinal says her oldest son, who is also undocumented, had to go to the emergency room with a problem with his appendix.  This mother said she was unable to be there with her son in his time of need.  “I can’t stay with him in the hospital. I cannot stay with him to give him some hugs, and tell him everything’s going to be alright, and I love him.”  Espinal said this is what other immigrant families are going through around the nation.  Families sit in detection centers not sure if they will see their loved ones again.  That is why Espinal is happy that people here in central Ohio rally to stop the separation of families.  “If I could be there, I’d be there.”  Since she’s unable to be here for fear of being detained, she had a message for those who are at the rally.  “Please keep fighting. We need to fight.”  Espinal said she hopes her story, combined with rallies, inspires change to the current policy.  The March and Rally To End Family Separation happened from 5pm to 7pm Thursday.
213	adjudicated	2	Grammy-winning R&B artist Miguel clasped his hands and listened.  Gwen Barrios, 17, of Santa Ana was in tears while she spoke about her father’s arrest by immigration officers as she was getting ready for school. She said her father is currently held at the Adelanto Detention Facility.  Mitzie Perez, an organizer with the Inland Empire-Immigrant Youth Collective, talked about her cousin’s deportation from the United States. He ended up in Guatemala, where his life was in danger. She said he wound up getting killed there.  Carlos Hidalgo, of North Hollywood, spoke of his time detained at the Adelanto Detention Facility. It’s run like a prison there, he said.      People hold signs against ‘immigrant prisons’ before the pop-up concert in front of the Adelanto Detention Facility in Adelanto, Ca. on Friday, October 20, 2017. The facility also serves as the largest ICE Processing center in California. (Sarah Alvarado for The Press-Enterprise)      Film crews set up for a pop-up concert in front of the Adelanto ICE Processing Center on Friday, October 20, 2017. Grammy-winning R&B artist Miguel, along with others were set to perform outside the Adelanto Detention Facility. (Sarah Alvarado for The Press-Enterprise)      Grammy-winning R&B artist, Miguel, participates in a round table discussion about immigration and detainment before performing at a concert at Adelanto Stadium in Adelanto, Ca. on Friday, October 20, 2017. (Sarah Alvarado for The Press-Enterprise)      Grammy-winning R&B artist, Miguel, participates in a round table discussion about immigration and detainment before performing at a concert at Adelanto Stadium in Adelanto, Ca. on Friday, October 20, 2017. (Sarah Alvarado for The Press-Enterprise)      Grammy-winning R&B artist, Miguel, speaks to a group outside the Adelanto Detention Facility on Friday, October 20, 2017. The facility serves as the largest ICE Processing center in the State of California. (Sarah Alvarado for The Press-Enterprise)      Grammy-winning R&B artist, Miguel, speaks to a group outside the Adelanto Detention Facility on Friday, October 20, 2017. The facility serves as the largest ICE Processing center in the State of California. (Sarah Alvarado for The Press-Enterprise)      People hold signs against ‘immigrant prisons’ before the pop-up concert in front of the Adelanto Detention Facility in Adelanto, Ca. on Friday, October 20, 2017. The facility also serves as the largest ICE Processing center in California. (Sarah Alvarado for The Press-Enterprise)  of Expand  On Friday, Oct. 20, Miguel was in Adelanto — home of California’s largest immigration detention center — to advocate for fair treatment of incarcerated immigrants at the Adelanto Detention Facility.  He was there to headline a show at Adelanto Stadium as part of the #SchoolsNotPrisons campaign — a free music and art tour that produces shows in communities “impacted by the overuse of punishment and incarceration.”  But before his performance, he met with a group immigrant rights organizers and youth impacted by deportation.  “There’s just a lot of injustice happening and I’m here to be educated and hopefully help shed some light to the issue,” Miguel said.  “We can find a solution. There’s no reason why people, who are contributing, to be ripped from their way of life,” he added.  The concert was organized by groups including The California Endowment, the Inland Empire-Immigration Youth Collective, the Inland Coalition for Immigrant Justice, the Community Initiatives for Visiting Immigrants in Confinement, known as CIVIC, and Revolve Impact.  Immigrant rights organizers in Adelanto on Friday announced a petition calling on media and government agencies to start referring to detention facilities as prisons.  “These detention centers are not what they look like,” Hidalgo said. “They are prisons and they are run like prisons.”  At 409,000 square feet, the Adelanto Detention Facility has an average daily population of 1,600. Immigrants stay anywhere from a couple of months to several years. More than 70 nationalities are represented among immigrants currently detained there. Most are Mexican nationals, followed by immigrants from Haiti and El Salvador.  Immigrants can end up in Adelanto after seeking asylum at the San Diego and Tijuana border or after they’re arrested by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, agents in enforcement operations across Southern California.  They are there solely for administrative purposes, pending decisions in their immigration cases or while awaiting deportation.  The private facility, operated and managed by The GEO Group, has drawn criticism over the number of detainees who have died at the center. There also have been complaints of sexual assaults and poor medical care.  ICE officials, and The GEO Group, however, have insisted they run a clean ship. Immigrant detainees get full physicals within 14 days of arrival and can access dental, mental, and other medical needs, officials have said.  Organizers of the event — which also featured Los Rakas, Ceci Bastida, and Buyepongo — said more than 1,000 signed up to attend the show.  Born to a black mother and a Mexican father, Miguel, whose last name is Pimentel, grew up more than 100 miles west of Adelanto in San Pedro. He simply goes by Miguel now.  In a recent Viceland documentary series, Miguel visits his father’s Mexican hometown of Zamora, Michoacán, for the first time.  “Most people think of me solely as a black artist, but there’s a reason why my name is Miguel,” he said.
214	adjudicated	2	HOLLAND, Mich. (WOOD) — Hope College students organized a march Tuesday in support of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals.  The march began at Pine Grove in the heart of Hope’s Holland campus and ended at city hall.  March organizers say their goals were to raise awareness about issues of immigration and show support for students and community members affected by the decision to end DACA.  “I think all of us are affected by this,” march organizer Alejandra Gomez Limon said. “Because whether it’s people in the Holland community, our families back home, the positive impact they make in our communities is going to be wiped away.”  DACA protects immigrants who came to the United States illegally as children.  The program won’t officially end until early 2018. In September, the Trump administration announced plans to end DACA, giving Congress six months to come up with a legislative fix before the government stops renewing permits for people already covered by the program.
215	adjudicated	1	MEDFORD, Ore. — Cities across the nation are gathering to protest immigrant family separations.  Our community gathered in Medford at the Vogel Plaza to protest a number of injustices they say are happening because of the Trump administration.  As of last month, children are being separated from their parents who have entered the country illegally and now await federal prosecution.  The children are being placed in jail-like facilities and are not being given the right to free council to represent their own cases, apart from their parents.  More than 100 people gathered at Vogel Plaza in downtown Medford and thousands gathered in at least 60 other cities across the nation led by the organization Families Belong Together or Familias Unidas no Dividas in Spanish.
216	adjudicated	3	BOSTON (CBS) — A rally in Mattapan on Sunday demonstrated support for the local Haitian community as they wait for the Trump administration to decide if they will be deported.  The Temporary Protected Status (TPS) program that allows about 5,000 Haitian locally, and 58,000 nationwide to remain in the country. Overall, 320,000 people from ten different countries live in the United States because of TPS. READ MORE: Chris Rock Performs In Boston, Says He's Still 'Processing' Oscar Slap  A rally in Mattahan to support Haitian who might lose their temporary protected status (WBZ-TV)  President Donald Trump has until November 6 to extend the status to citizens of Nicaragua and Honduras. The deadline for Haitians is November. 23.  “I’m a student. I’m graduating in about six months. And getting deported would actually stop me from getting my Bachelor’s degree as an accountant so its a whole lot of things we would be deprived of after we’ve worked so hard to accomplish them,” said Marvens Leconte, who was at the rally.  The program was designed for immigrants from countries where natural disasters, war, or other factors make returning unsafe. READ MORE: Jimmy Butler Scores 24 To Help Heat Fend Off Celtics 106-98  Without the extension, those residents would have to leave by January.  The State Department says conditions in their homeland has improved enough for them to return.  Many at the rally said Haiti is still recovering from an earthquake, a hurricane, and a cholera epidemic.  “It won’t be safe for us to send 58,000 people back to Haiti right now with everything that is going on so we want to make our voices heard to say that those people deserve an extension because it will take time for Haiti to rebuild,” explained Geralde Gabeau, a rally organizer. MORE NEWS: Hurley: Tom Brady Clearly Won Power Struggle With Bruce Arians In Tampa Bay  The Haitian community is hoping for an 18-month delay
217	adjudicated	3	AUSTIN — Nearly a year after U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions visited El Paso and called the border town "ground zero" in the federal government's war on cartel-related crime, the Trump administration has again zeroed in on the area.  This time the government's focus is on a quiet town on the outskirts of El Paso County: Tornillo.   The city, which had a population of 1,568 in the 2010 census, will be the site of the first temporary shelters constructed for immigrant children who have been separated from their parents after entering the country without authorization.  More:US eyes Fort Bliss, Goodfellow, Dyess Air Force bases for immigrant-children tent cities  The Tornillo-Guadalupe International Port of Entry previously was the site of a tent city for an estimated 500 immigrants who entered the United States for processing and then were allowed to migrate to various states to reconnect with relatives. Kenneth Wolfe, a spokesman for the Administration for Children and Families at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, said 360 children will be placed at the Tornillo site in the coming days. More could be added in the future.   "HHS is legally required to provide care and shelter for all unaccompanied alien children referred by (the Department of Homeland Security), and works in close coordination with DHS on the security and safety of the children and community," Wolfe said in an email.   Multiple media outlets reported Thursday that tents would be used to house the children in Tornillo.   Leaders in El Paso have opposed housing children in tents or other temporary structures at military bases, going so far as to send a letter to federal officials demanding they reconsider their plans to do so.   More:U.S. attorney general calls border 'ground zero'  On Thursday, many leaders expressed outrage at the prospect of housing children in tents in Tornillo, especially considering the high temperatures in the region.   "This week we're experiencing 100- to 105-degree weather," said state Sen. José Rodríguez, D-El Paso. "You are talking about placing children in tents in the desert regions of West Texas? It is totally inhumane and it is outrageous. It should be condemned by anyone who has a moral sense of responsibility."   The federal government has been working to identify locations for temporary housing since the administration adopted a "zero tolerance policy" for people entering the country illegally in April.   The administration pledged to intensify criminal prosecution for people caught crossing the border between ports of entry. When children cross with their families, they are separated from their parents if they are apprehended and met with criminal charges.   "It really doesn't matter where the tent cities are constructed — we shouldn't be doing this," said U.S. Rep. Beto O'Rourke, D-El Paso. "We shouldn’t be separating children from their parents."  More:Trump administration may put immigrant children at Texas military bases  O'Rourke said he is joining legislation to oppose this practice of separation.  When children are apprehended at the border or are separated from their parents, they are placed in the custody of the U.S. Office of Refugee Resettlement, which is an office of the Administration for Children and Families.   There are 100 shelters for minors in 14 different states, but the administration's new policy of separating families has left the government looking for more options for housing these children.   Officials with the Health and Human Services Department said they were considering three locations in Texas as options for temporary shelters: Fort Bliss in El Paso, Goodfellow Air Force Base in San Angelo and Dyess Air Force Base in Abilene. Tornillo was not included on the list.   The tent structures will be at the Tornillo port of entry between the city and Guadalupe, Mexico. The port opened last year.  More:Port of Entry in Tornillo named after World War I hero  'Use of children as a deterrent' U.S. Rep. Will Hurd, a Republican who represents a large district that includes Tornillo, said he is "disappointed" in the lack of information the government is providing about the "detention situation along the border."   "The crisis along the border is not new and will continue until we have smart border security, work to address root causes of mass migration from Central American countries and have enough immigration judges to apply consequences for violation of the law," Hurd said in a statement. "Our strategy to solving our broken immigration system should never include the use of children as a deterrent.”  El Paso area lawmakers who represent the city at the statehouse on Tuesday sent a letter to federal officials condemning the proposal and the practice of separating children from their parents.   Now that a decision has been made, Rodríguez said he fully expects to see a legal challenge to the separation policy and the resulting housing decisions.   "We are going to look at everything we can to stop this outrageous proposal," he said in an interview. "All of us, it seems to be, have a responsibility to speak up, rise up and say we are not going to accept this, we are not going to tolerate this and we are going to prevent it from happening."   State Rep. César Blanco, D-El Paso, called the decision to erect tents "ridiculous" and said he plans to visit the site once it is operational to ensure that the conditions are livable.   "If there's nothing to hide and they're going to live with this decision, they need to be open and transparent," Blanco said.   El Paso County Judge Ruben Vogt said, “It’s so heartbreaking to realize where our country is right now, and the fact that we are having to erect this tent city because of a government created problem, basically.   “If we were not separating children from their families, we would not have to be erecting these tent cities, and that fact that it’s happening in our backyard in El Paso, it’s just heartbreaking, disheartening and unnecessary.”  Veronica Escobar, the Democratic nominee in the race to replace O'Rourke in Congress, said lawmakers need to take action to stop the practice of separating families and therefore lessen the need for temporary shelters in the first place.   "The family separation occurring in our country is a tragedy of historic proportions, and it's heartbreaking to know it's occurring in our own backyard," Escobar, a former county judge, said in a statement. "This policy, cruelty that was created by the Trump administration, is policy that the President can end, and one that Congress must end if he does not."  More:Veronica Escobar takes Democratic nomination for Congress, easily defeats Dori Fenenbock  Immigrant rights advocates also have denounced the administration for its "zero tolerance" attitude and the resulting separation of children from their parents.   Fernando Garcia, executive director of the Border Network for Human Rights in El Paso, said using tents to house immigrant children is akin to incarceration.  "We cannot have El Paso as an example of child incarceration," Garcia said, adding that he also plans to monitor operations at the temporary shelter while mobilizing activists.  The organization is planning to protest of the policy of separating children from their families Tuesday in El Paso.   "We are going to be observant, but we're also going to be protesting," he said. "This is the very last straw."
218	adjudicated	4	[Image: Rep. Yvette Clarke (D-NY) and organizers for Black immigrants hold a rally in Washington, D.C. on November 15, 2017 to support the extension of the Temporary Protected Status (TPS) program. (CREDIT: Esther Y. Lee)] Rep. Yvette Clarke (D-NY) and organizers for Black immigrants hold a rally in Washington, D.C. on November 15, 2017 to support the extension of the Temporary Protected Status (TPS) program. (CREDIT: Esther Y. Lee)  WASHINGTON, D.C. — Roughly 35 advocates, Black immigrants, and a congresswoman were in the nation’s capital Wednesday asking the Trump administration to prevent the deportation of Black immigrants ahead of an imminent decision on the Temporary Protected Status (TPS) program next week.  “We are here and part of the society and have migrated here for decades and decades,” Opal Tometi, executive director for Black Alliance for Just Immigration, told ThinkProgress, explaining that Black immigrants make up about 10 percent of the Black population in the United States. “We brought Black immigrants and Black allies together from across the country to uplift and amplify the voices of Black immigrants.”  The TPS program — which has allowed about 320,000 immigrants from ten countries to live in the United States — is a provisional designation granted to immigrants who cannot return to their homes due to violence, natural disasters, or other conditions that prevent them from returning to their home countries. Since the early 1990s, the program has provided TPS holders the ability to legally work on a temporary basis. Although the program does not directly provide legal status, many have been in the country for decades due to multiple extensions.  Tometi said her group had a thoughtful and “surprisingly good” visit with about 15 lawmakers who understood the significance of TPS for Black immigrants and Americans. Advertisement  “There’s an imperative to find a solution that’s viable and respects the dignity of all people,” Tometi said. “[Lawmakers] began to see the picture a little more clearly when we were in their offices so we’re going to follow up with them.”  TPS for 50,000 Haitian recipients will expire on January 22, 2018, but the decision deadline is expected by November 23, Thanksgiving Day. Advocates believe a decision would likely come the day before the federally recognized holiday. Earlier this month, President Donald Trump ended TPS for roughly 2,500 Nicaraguans through January 2019. It also extended TPS for Honduran immigrants for six months through July 2018, at which time the administration will determine what it will do with the designation.  For TPS holders, waiting around for decision deadlines has been difficult, particularly now that Trump — who supports slashing legal immigration and cracking down on undocumented immigrants who have lived in the country for decades — is in office. For many, the ideal solution would be for Congress to pass a legislative fix that allows TPS holders a way to permanently stay in the country. That’s why Tometi and other organizers brought personal stories of TPS recipients to lawmakers to help them see the need to “create a strategy that wins for everybody.”  “We have to create a coherent, smart, equitable solution that is informed by those who are directly impacted and that to me seems like the most important thing,” Tometi said.  The rally on Wednesday included community members from the Black Immigration Network (BIN), Black Alliance for Just Immigration (BAJI), Undocublack Network, National TPS Alliance and Temporary Protected Status (TPS) holders. Advertisement  Farah Larrieux was one of the Haitian TPS recipients visiting congressional offices and attending the rally. She has been in the country since 2005. A telecommunications entrepreneur with her own television production company, she hosted the PBS public affairs show Haiti Journal between 2011 and 2016. Larrieux, who lives in Florida, wouldn’t know how to begin rebuilding her life back in Haiti without TPS.         “I would have to start over with nothing.”  “It’s starting over– you have built your life here. At first you came to the United States for a better life, for success, and now someone can decide to say you no longer deserve to be here so ‘go back,'” Larrieux told ThinkProgress, explaining that she and her husband attempted to legalize their status soon after they arrived but were unable to do so. “After building this for 20 years, I would have to start over with nothing.”  Larrieux has already considered the consequences of being sent back to Haiti, where she hasn’t lived in for more than 12 years. Her professional opportunities would be limited because Haiti is a “tough” place to be an entrepreneur, she said, with infrastructure that will be unable to absorb so many returnees.  “You have here [in America] so many opportunities and assistance and programs to help someone to succeed that you don’t have in countries like Haiti,” Larrieux said. “How will you start your life over when you don’t have these [programs] and then you lose everything [because of deportation]?”  [Image: Organizers and Black immigrants hold a rally in Washington, D.C. on November 15, 2017 to support the extension of the Temporary Protected Status (TPS) program. (CREDIT: Esther Y. Lee)] Organizers and Black immigrants hold a rally in Washington, D.C. on November 15, 2017 to support the extension of the Temporary Protected Status (TPS) program. (CREDIT: Esther Y. Lee)  Last month, the Haitian government formally asked the Trump administration for an 18-month extension. The initial designation for Haiti’s TPS program came after a devastating earthquake in 2010 killed tens of thousands of people. In his letter to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Haiti’s ambassador to the United States Paul Altidor pointed out that his country has since faced disruptions in living conditions exacerbated by Hurricanes Matthew, Irma, and Maria, as well as cholera. Advertisement  Rep. Yvette Clarke (D-NY) said at the rally that she introduced the ASPIRE Act, a bipartisan bill to provide permanent residency for certain TPS holders who have been in the United States since January 1, 2017 and can prove to a judge that they would face extreme hardship if they were returned.      “It is just heartbreaking to see the anguish on the faces of those within my community whose lives are uncertain right now.”  “We have so many residents in our state that has TPS,” Clarke said. “It is just heartbreaking to see the anguish on the faces of those within my community whose lives are uncertain right now…Sending people back under these conditions is inhumane, quite frankly.”  Roughly 5,2000 Haitian TPS holders live in Clarke’s home state of New York, many of whom have lived in the state for an average of 15 years and come from mixed-immigration status families.  “In the United States, we’re blended as families– some folks are here as TPS, their children are U.S. citizens, they have relatives who are legal permanent residents,” Clarke told ThinkProgress. “There’s a much more humane way to address immigration.”  According to a Center for American Progress report, New York stands to lose $262.9 million annually in GDP without its Haitian TPS workers, nearly half of whom work in health care and social assistance. (ThinkProgress is an editorially-independent news site housed within CAP.)  Clarke’s bill may be able to gain traction in Congress given bipartisan support from lawmakers around the issue. The bipartisan Congressional Black Caucus supports extending TPS. On Tuesday, Massachusetts Gov. Charlie Baker (R) wrote a letter to acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke on behalf of TPS recipients from Haiti, Honduras, and El Salvador, urging for the extension of the program for “hard-working people who make valuable contributions to the economy and culture of our state.”  “My hope is that the [White House] will see that it’s a bipartisan bill,” Clarke told ThinkProgress. “We have members in the House on both sides of the aisle who see the necessity for providing TPS and having the ability for individuals who we’ve protected to be able to make their case while in the United States for hardship and hopefully prevail.”  The Trump administration’s intentions to keep TPS holders in the country remain a bit vague. As a presidential candidate, Trump visited South Florida’s “Little Haiti” to proclaim, “to all of our friends in Little Haiti, your day of justice is coming, believe me.”  “All our friends in Little Haiti they’re great people,” Trump said in October 2016, acknowledging Hurricane Matthew’s devastation in Haiti. “I mean, I spent a long time, these are people that are incredible. They have the warmest feeling, the warmest heart.”  Yet in May, then-DHS Secretary John Kelly limited the renewal of Haiti’s TPS program to six months instead of the maximum 18 months.  “Is this the United States — the land of immigrants and land of opportunities?” Larrieux questioned out loud. “When in the end, they’re trying to strip away the opportunities that I worked so hard to build? And now you’re telling me I don’t deserve to be here?”
219	adjudicated	3	A crowd of about 50 chanted outside the Neal Smith Federal Building in Des Moines Friday morning.  "Education, not deportation," they shouted. "No human is illegal."  The group was there to call on Congress to protect DREAMers and extend temporary protected status (TPS) to all immigrants in the U.S. without documentation.  "They need to know Iowans support undocumented immigrants," said Kenia Calderon, 24, of Des Moines, of U.S. Sens. Chuck Grassley and Joni Ernst and U.S. Rep. David Young.  Register editorial: Congress should stop dragging feet on immigration reform  Guest opinion: DACA had to go, and here's why  Current Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals protections will expire March 5, 2018 as a result of the Trump administration's decision to end the program. However, the administration allowed 154,000 DACA recipients to renew those protections.  According to the advocacy group Center for American Progress, 22,000 DACA  recipients missed the October 5 deadline to renew their protections.  Calderon said thousands of undocumented immigrants will lose DACA protections, emphasizing the urgency of her and the other protesters' pleas. "They need to act now," she said of Iowa's representatives in Congress.  "It's important because I'm a DACA recipient myself," Calderon said. "I know many other DACA recipients in our state who are living in fear. It's very close to home."  Calderon said Iowans can call their representatives to ask them to pass a Clean Dream Act, the term used for legislation that will give young undocumented immigrants a pathway to citizenship.
220	adjudicated	2	"Restaurants across Houston and Texas closed Thursday in solidarity with a nationwide rally in support of immigrants and hundreds of protesters marched in Austin against President Donald Trump's recent policies.  The protests come just days after highly-publicized immigration raids across the country, including Austin and San Antonio, that lead to the arrest of 680 people who Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said in a statement were public safety threats.  It was the largest such sweep in about two years and fueled tension and fear among immigrants already rattled after Trump's series of executive actions, including his controversial travel and refugee ban that is now tied up in litigation.  ""There is most definitely anxiety, yes,"" said Cesar Espinosa, executive director of the advocacy group FIEL Houston. ""We have been inundated with calls.""  In Houston, restaurants including Torchy's Tacos in The Heights and Tacos A Go Go posted on social media that they were closed to allow their staff to participate in the rally, named A Day Without Immigrants.  Enrique Bravo, the owner of the Pollo Bravo chain, said he allowed employees at his five restaurants to skip work. His restaurant on Richmond Avenue closed and the others adjusted their operations to stay open with fewer staff.  Bravo, an immigrant from Mexico who has lived here for two decades, said his decision was based ""on my respect to my workers.""  In Austin, the Kipp charter school network posted a photo on Twitter of a nearly empty school, calling it a ""powerful statement.""  ""We've seen heavy absences from our students, across the board,"" said Hector Leiva, a spokesman. ""We knew that lots of parents and families were interested in supporting this. We support them.""  Throughout the morning, protesters marched from Austin City Hall toward the state Capitol, rallying against the increase of immigration raids across the city. Police officers shut down half of Congress Avenue while three women danced to Spanish music in front of the marchers. Children waved Mexican flags.  ""ICE out of Austin,"" protesters yelled.  Some held signs reading ""Immigrants make America great"" and ""Stop the deportations. Stop the separations.""  Rudy Chapa, a senior at Connally High School in Austin, encouraged his classmates to come to Thursday's march. He brought together roughly 20 students who took the city bus to show their support.  In Houston, a rally is organized for 6 p.m. at Guadalupe Plaza near Navigation Boulevard in the East End."
221	adjudicated	2	The anguish was obvious as Francisco Serrano spoke haltingly about losing his brother through deportation and watching his parents fret over their future as they applied for permanent residency after the loss of their temporary protected status as Salvadorian nationals living in the U.S.  “The whole process was hard on us,” said Serrano, a Bowling Green native. “I felt hopeless, I felt there was nothing I could do. It’s hard seeing my three nieces grow up without their father and it’s hard not having my whole family together.”  Serrano helped organize a rally Saturday morning outside U.S. Sen. Rand Paul’s State Street office to protest the separation of more than 2,000 children from their parents in recent weeks at the border, one of the effects of the Trump Administration’s zero-tolerance immigration policy requiring the arrest of anyone crossing the border illegally.  The reunification of separated families has been slow to occur despite the president recently signing an executive order stopping further separation of families and a federal court ruling last week that requires the government to reunify families separated at the border.  Bowling Green joined hundreds of other U.S. cities Saturday in holding demonstrations united under the slogan “Families Belong Together.”  “Welcoming the stranger, showing hospitality to foreigners and extravagant generosity are non-negotiables in the Bible,” said Rev. Megan Huston of First Christian Church.  More than 200 people were estimated to have attended the downtown rally, which occurred in stifling heat approaching 90 degrees late Saturday morning.  Several demonstrators held hand-made signs bearing messages that included “love has no borders,” “reunite families now” and “save democracy, stop fascism.”  “Just because you have a piece of paper that says you have status, that doesn’t make you more of a human than someone who does not,” Serrano said.  Speakers gave passionate addresses about advocating for the rights of immigrants.     “I cannot imagine the pain that mothers and children are going through by being separated,” said Julia Rivas, a Bowling Green resident whose family emigrated to the U.S. from El Salvador when she was a child.   advertisement Salvadorians are the largest group to have temporary protected status, due to families fleeing a civil war that wracked the nation for more than 12 years.  The U.S. government announced plans to discontinue temporary protected status for Salvadorian nationals this year.     Rivas said that more recent asylum-seekers are fleeing poverty and crime in El Salvador.     “Some of these families are facing violence and protecting their children from being taken into gangs, they have no option but to try to protect their children and themselves,” Rivas said. “It’s been extremely hard for me to see everything that’s going on, it hurts me so much as a mother. However, we see young leaders trying to make a change and that gives me hope.”  Patti Minter, Jeanie Smith and Dana Beasley Brown, all candidates for state or local office, exhorted those in attendance to organize and advocate for changes to federal immigration policy.  Sabina Husic spoke of her family’s experience in Bosnia during the Srebrenica massacre of more than 8,000 Muslims in 1995 during the Bosnian War.  Husic never saw her grandfather alive again after Srebrenica and was almost separated permanently from her mother.  “Separation is a traumatic experience,” Husic said. “Even if they were to be reunited, the pain never goes away, the fear of losing your family never goes away.”     Addi Hernandez of Bowling Green said after the rally that she was “pleasantly surprised and overwhelmed by the support” shown by the community.  Hernandez, whose family brought her to the U.S. from Mexico when she was 2, spoke during the rally about the desperation felt by many immigrants seeking asylum here.  “It really gives you strength and courage to stand up for what’s right when you see all the support from the community,” Hernandez said after the rally.
222	adjudicated	3	 San Diegans protest GOP tax bills, ending of DACA By: Emily Thode Posted at 11:30 PM, Dec 04, 2017 and last updated 2017-12-05 02:36:16-05  SAN DIEGO (KGTV) -- Dozens of protested the Republican tax bills moving through Congress and the phasing out of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, program by White House.  “I came out to support protesting the tax scam. But, when I came out I saw people protesting in support of the dream act, so I wanted to support them as well.” Louise Metter said.  The two smaller groups of protesters teamed-up to become one larger protest.  They repeated chants, including, “The people united will never be divided,” “Hey, hey, ho, ho, the tax scam has got to go,” and, “We support the dreamers.”  One protester, named Ali, said he was brought to the United States illegally at the age of four.  “When DACA passed, I was able to come out of the shadows. I was able to go to school. I went to UCLA and graduated top of my class. I was able to volunteer at hospitals," Ali said. "They treated me like a criminal before."  The so-called "dreamers" want lawmakers to pass legislation to protect them from deportation as the White House phases DACA out.  The protesters upset over the tax legislation fear that the bill will benefit the rich at the expense of those who are middle and lower income. Copyright 2017 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Sign up for the Breaking News Newsletter and receive up to date information. now signed up to receive the Breaking News Newsletter.
223	adjudicated	3	Colorado Mountain College students Guadalupe Morales, Fernando Ramos and Raquel Vasquez chat before the start of the DACA Rally held on Grand Avenue in fron of Glenwood Springs High School on Dec. 4, 2017. Chelsea Self / Post Independent |  Young, undocumented immigrants and their supporters rallied outside of Glenwood Springs High School Tuesday as part of a statewide week of demonstrations pushing Congress to pass the Dream Act.  It’s now halfway through the six-month enforcement delay that President Donald Trump gave Congress when in September he rescinded Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. DACA is an Obama-era protection of young immigrants brought illegally into the U.S. as children. That six months is the time frame that Congress has to pass legislation to protect those now-vulnerable DACA recipients, and immigration advocates hope the Dream Act of 2017 will be the solution.  Advocates at these rallies are calling on Congress to pass a “clean Dream Act” – meaning clean of other attached legislative agendas, such as the president’s border wall.  Dreamers do not deserve to be used as a bargaining chip, said Junior Ortega, a Garfield County employee and DACA recipient who’s been active as a local immigrant advocate.  “No more money for more border security, no more money for more immigration enforcement, and no more money for a stupid wall,” Alan Muñoz shouted at the rally.  Advocates in Glenwood Springs specifically aimed their message at Rep. Scott Tipton, who represents Colorado’s 3rd Congressional District. Tipton is also scheduled to have a staff member at the Garfield County administration building today, from 2 to 4 p.m.  “We are calling on Congressman Scott Tipton to show moral fortitude, leadership and courage to stand with us for the youth and future of the Roaring Fork Valley’s economic, social and cultural communities,” said Ortega.  At the Glenwood Rally, several Dreamers told the crowd their stories of being raised in the U.S., where their families are rooted and set on a career path that’s now being yanked out from under them. One young woman said her dream has always been to be a nurse, “but my dream is currently on hold.” After studying for two years as a full-time student to meet the requirements of a nursing program, “I was told I couldn’t apply to the program because of my nationality.”  Ruth and David Sante, from Rifle, said they were attending the rally “to support our immigrants and our DACA students.” David, who runs a construction company, said he works with several people with children who are Dreamers. “One person I know, his son would like to go to college, but now he’s deciding not to because he’s afraid he’s going to get deported.”  When asked what he’d like Tipton to hear, David said, “Immigrants are what America is all about. We’ve all been immigrants. And if you want our economy to grow you need that population.”  The rallies across Colorado were a buildup toward a bigger event in Washington D.C. Twenty-three immigrant advocates from Colorado will today join a mass public demonstration at the Capitol to push Congress to pass the Dream Act. Organizations including Colorado Immigrant Rights Coalition also want to use the occasion to push for permanent residency for immigrants who were granted temporary protected status, such as those fleeing humanitarian crises.  “The event will be marked as the largest act of civil disobedience organized by immigrant groups in the history of the movement,” according to CIRC.  “The goal of these actions will be to disrupt business as usual at the Capitol, and say that this cannot wait and you cannot play games with people’s lives,” said CIRC’s Sophia Clark.  In early November, Ortega went to D.C. for a demonstration at the Capitol that drew hundreds of undocumented young people calling for Congress to pass the Dream Act.  “It was an intense event, an amazing experience I’ll never forget,” he said Tuesday. He joined hundreds of Dreamers who flooded into the atrium of the Hart Senate Office Building. “When you looked up there were floors and floors of people.”  During the demonstration the building erupted with chants: “What do we want? Dream Act!” From an upper floor in the atrium, demonstrators unfurled a large banner that read “CONGRESS WE DEMAND A CLEAN DREAM ACT NOW.”  Ortega had never participated in a mass demonstration like this. The atmosphere was exciting yet nerve wracking, he said, as he was uncertain what might happen. Dreamers usually try to stay under the radar and avoid causing problems, he said.  “It was emotional to see all those people, how many were there and willing to be arrested to demonstrate the urgency [of this bill]. I was speechless,” he said.  If signed into law, the Dream Act would protect young immigrants who were brought into the U.S. illegally when they were children. The act would provide a pathway to permanent residency and then citizenship to these young immigrants.  So far, Dream Act bills in the House of Representatives and Senate have been referred to committees, both controlled by Republicans. The question hanging in the air is whether this is a bipartisan enough issue to clear those committees.  A better shot in the House, said Clark, is getting a “discharge petition” passed. If it garners enough legislators’ signatures, such a petition would allow these bill to bypass the committee and go straight to a vote on the House floors.  “That would actually give it a chance, a much better chance,” Clark said. “And that’s also why we’re working hard to get Rep. Scott Tipton’s support, because we need Republican legislators to take leadership now, like Sen. Cory Gardner has. The more they can be leaders within their own party, the better chance we have.”
224	adjudicated	1	CINCINNATI -- Hundreds of protesters from both sides of the Ohio River gathered Thursday afternoon on the Roebling Bridge to share their outrage over stories of family separation emerging from a controversial Trump administration immigration policy.  "We do know this is a humanitarian crime, and we do know this is not how Americans treat children," organizer Nicole Klungle said.  The Trump administration's recently implemented "zero tolerance" immigration policy, which refers all adults who illegally enter the United States for prosecution regardless of their reason for entry, has resulted in more than 650 migrant children being separated from their parents and placed indefinitely in government-run shelters.   Hundreds of people are on the Roebling Bridge for the “Families Belong Together” rally. Cincinnati joins other protests across the country over a new immigration policy. The zero tolerance policy has separated hundreds of immigrant parents & children at the Southern border @WCPO pic.twitter.com/bPjYqRu3dX  — Ashley Zilka (@ashleyzilka) June 14, 2018  The stories emerging from its implementation are vivid -- a mother who claimed her baby was taken while she breastfed; asylum seekers fleeing gang violence and abuse being separated from their children; boys housed in a former Walmart receiving only two hours of outdoor time each day -- and have prompted rebuke from organizations including the United Nations human rights office and the American Civil Liberties Union.   "I know my kids are very upset when they don't know where I am at for 10 minutes, let alone for days on end -- weeks -- months," protester Heather Canner said. "We don't know where these people are coming from. The point of the United States is to be the beacon of light, of hope, we should have a little more empathy."  United States Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who enacted the policy and recently disqualified many asylum seekers from receiving protected status in the United States, argued in a June 5 interview that the policy was an effective deterrent for others considering illegal immigration and that migrants should "expect" to be separated from their families.  "It's legitimate to warn people who come to the country unlawfully, bringing children with them, that they can't expert that they'll always be kept together," he told conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt.  Klungle said she and other protesters don't buy it. Regardless of politics, she said, dividing families in this way is cruel.   "No parent would want any child to be treated that way," she said. "Even if you aren't a parent, you don't treat children that way. You don't treat human beings that way."  The new policy has resulted in such a swell of children being directed to government-run shelters that at least one new facility will be opened in response.  "Somebody has got to end it," West Chester resident Cathi Bridges said. "I will give my life to end it. I feel that strongly about it. I am so mad."
225	adjudicated	1	This is no fish story  Justin Hamlin got lucky on Valentine’s Day this year but his luck didn’t last long. He caught a record-breaking fish in Keystone Lake near Tulsa, Okla. that Friday: a paddlefish weighing in at about 157 pounds. But, alas, he could not claim the record, reports the Association of Mature American Citizens, or AMAC.  The Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation made him release it. It seems that the American paddlefish is classified as a vulnerable species and so the state’s fishing regulations require paddlefish caught on Mondays and Fridays must be released. Though he can’t claim the record, he does have the satisfaction of knowing his catch outweighed paddlefish that won the state’s record of 132 pounds and the world record of 144 pounds.  ###  A virtuoso performance  How do you pass the time when you are lying on an operating table undergoing brain surgery?  Dagmar Turner played her violin. It happened at King’s College Hospital in London during an operation to remove a brain tumor, according to AMAC. Turner plays with the Isle of Wight Symphony Orchestra. Dr. Keyoumars Ashkan, who performed the surgery, explained that playing the instrument during the operation helped ensure that her musical abilities were not impaired.  Ashkan said that her tumor was too close to the parts of the brain that control motor skills.  “We perform around 400 resections (tumor removals) each year, which often involves rousing patients to carry out language tests, but this was the first time I’ve had a patient play an instrument,” Ashkan said.  ###   Pigeons power  PUTIN ordered a fly-by over downtown Las Vegas recently, but it wasn’t the Russian president. Rather, it was a group calling itself Pigeons United To Interfere Now, which outfitted each of the pigeons in the flock with red Make America Great Again hats.  PUTIN says it organized the demonstration in support of President Trump. One of the birds even wore a wig mimicking the president’s hairstyle.
226	adjudicated	2	‘Infeliz Navidad’: DACA Recipients Sing Protest Carols at Texas Governor’s Mansion  Texas’ approximately 110,000 DACA holders have no idea if or when Congress will assure them a future in the U.S.  by Gus Bova  December 5, 2017, 9:25 PM, CST  Around two dozen immigrant rights activists sang Christmas carols outside the Texas governor’s mansion Tuesday evening as a reminder that nearly 700,000 young immigrants nationwide face an “infeliz navidad” if Congress doesn’t find a solution for DACA. President Trump is set to terminate the Obama-era program, which allows immigrants who arrived in the U.S. as children to live and work in the country, on March 5.  “As you see behind me, [Governor Greg Abbott] is ready for Christmas and the holidays,” said Luis Ortega, volunteer director of Immigrants United, as he gestured toward the wreath-draped mansion. “A time that should bring joy and comfort, but for many of us it will be a cheerless holiday.”      "Infeliz Navidad": Carolers gather at Texas governor's mansion as reminder that "Dreamers" may face holidays full of uncertainty.      Posted by The Texas Observer on Tuesday, December 5, 2017  Ortega, 23, is one of around 110,000 current DACA holders in Texas hoping for Congress to clear up their futures. Some have already lost their benefits either by failing to meet an October deadline or through official mishandling, and if lawmakers don’t act by March 5, DACA recipients will see their work permits start expiring at a rate of nearly 1,000 a day nationally.  Ortega, who’s lived in Texas since he was 5, works full-time in retail and studies in Austin’s community college system, on top of directing his nonprofit. He says he applied to renew his DACA status before the Trump-mandated deadline in October, but he has yet to receive his new work permit, which expires December 29. He said he fears the document won’t arrive in time and he’ll lose his job. “That will be the last day I can work legally and help support my family,” he said.  Yuridia Loera, a 22-year-old activist with the immigrant rights group United We Dream, was also present Tuesday and said she has yet to receive a permit that she applied for in April. Her authorization is now expired. Luis Ortega.  Gus Bova  Ortega and Loera were joined in downtown Austin Tuesday evening by a small crowd that shivered against a cold front as they sang their modified holiday songs of protest. In their rendition, the classic “El burrito de Belén” changed to a song of popular resistance: “con mi protesta y mi pueblo, voy camino a mis sueños.”  The future of the “Dreamers” is currently shrouded in congressional bickering. Congress members have introduced various measures that could offer a path to citizenship for DACA recipients and other immigrants who arrived in the U.S. as children. The preferred vehicle for many immigrant advocates is the Dream Act of 2017, which offers the least onerous path to status.  Meanwhile, Congress faces a December 8 deadline for passing a spending bill to avoid a government shutdown, and Senate Republicans will need at least eight Democratic votes to do so. Some prominent Democrats, such as California’s Kamala Harris and Vermont’s Bernie Sanders, have pledged not to vote for any spending bill that lacks a DACA fix.  On Monday, U.S. Senator John Cornyn, R-Texas, blasted them on the Senate floor. “That’s simply a hysterical and cynical ploy – putting their party and their agenda ahead of the nation,” he said. The Senate Majority Whip argued that lawmakers could easily assemble a DACA solution in January or February, and there was no need to risk a shutdown.  But advocates are wary of letting a decision slip into the new year. “If Republicans somehow manage to kick the can to next spring, what’s predictable is that they’ll load up an inadequate DACA fix with enough poison pills to ensure opposition,” said the pro-immigration reform group America’s Voice in a statement Monday.  Cornyn is also co-sponsor on a bill introduced Tuesday that would pair border security measures with a three-year extension of DACA that Frank Sharry, executive director of America’s Voice Education Fund, has called “a witch’s brew of nativist poison pills topped by a stingy, temporary three-year reprieve.”  [Image: Will Hurd — trump] U.S. Representative Will Hurd, R-Texas  Office of Will Hurd  On Tuesday morning, 34 House Republicans sent a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan supporting a DACA fix before the year’s end. Two Texans signed the letter: retiring Congressman Joe Barton, and Will Hurd, whose District 23 spans one-third of the U.S.-Mexico border and is one of the state’s most competitive. Though the Republicans fell short of promising to withhold votes on the upcoming spending bill, House GOP leadership currently favors a version that would extend only through December 22, which could create a second chance to include the immigration legislation.  Multiple lawsuits have been filed against the Trump administration for its handling of the DACA program. The administration has fought to halt discovery in those cases to avoid releasing documents relevant to its deliberations on the policy. The Justice Department most recently filed with the U.S. Supreme Court to stymy a suit filed by six “Dreamers,” which accuses the president of “unconstitutional bias against Mexicans and Latinos.”  United We Dream, which has held frequent actions targeting members of Congress, held a die-in Tuesday afternoon outside the office of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. Julieta Garibay, a Texas organizer with the group, said Tuesday they have actions planned targeting Texas Congress members as well, including Hurd and Representative John Culberson, a Houston Republican. SUPPORT INDEPENDENT JOURNALISM  Do you think free access to journalism like this is important? The Texas Observer is known for its fiercely independent, uncompromising work— which we are pleased to provide to the public at no charge in this space. We rely on the generosity of our readers who believe that this work is important. You can chip in for as little as 99 cents a month. If you support this mission, we need your help. Learn more  Gus Bova is a senior staff writer and assistant editor at the Texas Observer. He writes about labor, politics, the border, homelessness, and occasionally other topics. Before coming to the Observer, he worked at a shelter for recently arrived immigrants and asylum-seekers. He studied Latin American Studies at the University of Kansas. 
227	adjudicated	2	About 50 protestors hit downtown Hendersonville on Saturday to make their voices heard about recent immigration enforcement actions that have led to the separation of families. An informal protest rally outside the Historic Courthouse was held Saturday by the Progressive Organized Women.  “As a mother, with kids at home — safe at home — I had to do something,” said Jamie Mahan, one of the organizers. She attended the rally with her husband, John, and their twin sons, Wilder and Finn.  The protest comes days after several similar events were held across the country.  At least 60 cities held events Thursday in cities such as Washington, Los Angeles and Austin, Texas. Those events were organized by Families Belong Together, or Familias Unidas No Divididas.  In the wake of the national movement, Mahan got on Facebook and quickly put together Saturday’s protest.  “We missed Thursday. I’ve been following the news, and every day it’s more heartbreaking,” she said.  John Mahan said splitting up families runs contrary to American values.  “I think the point of this is families being separated,” he said. “This is not who we are as Americans. We don’t deny our neighbors who are fleeing violence.”  Gayle Kemp, who is running for N.C. House District 117, said it was critical that people make their voices heard on immigration.  “I’m here because I cannot sit down for this. No American should," she said. "There are 45 children a day being taken from their parents. They’re putting them in cages."  Immigration officials separated nearly 2,000 children from their parents who illegally crossing the border in April and May, the Department of Homeland Security said Friday.  Given the protest was put quickly together, Kemp said she was pleased with the response.  Your stories live here. Fuel your hometown passion and plug into the stories that define it. Create Account “For me, this is terrific to see people talking about this, to show we care (and) to show people this is happening," she said. "They put people in cages in North Korea. We don’t. Every representative should be here.”  Kemp added: “I really do believe Jesus is weeping."  Judith Scruggs also decried the enforcement actions.  “It’s extremely important. We can’t separate families,” she said. “There is no law to support this. It’s something this administration cooked up.”  Jamie Mahan said the timing of the protest was significant.  “We’re not going to stop speaking out. (Sunday) is Father’s Day,” she said. “Every family should denounce this practice.”       
228	adjudicated	1	Dozens of people rallied Sunday night to draw attention to the plight of families separated at the border and detained by immigration authorities.  The Free The Children rally took place at the Cocoa Riverfront Park.  “The message we’re trying to get across is that we’re going to stand with the families being separated at the border,” said Joan Majid, who organized the rally.  “We’re hoping it will inspire people to take action. This is one of the ways we can resist.”   About 50 people came out to march around the park.   Community members turn out for a cause at Riverfront Park in Cocoa Village. The controversy centers on the Trump administration’s policy to detain and separate the children of adults caught crossing the border in contrast to previous policies routing families with children through immigration courts.  Contact Gallop @321-242-3642, jdgallop@floridatoday.com and Twitter @JDGallop  
229	adjudicated	2	Luis Tapia, a junior at Horlick High School, speaks Tuesday at a rally before getting on a bus to travel to Washington, D.C., to protest for immigration reform. Tapia is one of about 60 Wisconsin residents planning to participate in the protest on Wednesday in Washington. Racine Mayor Cory Mason, right, speaks Tuesday to Horlick High School students at a rally outside the school before some of the students were to travel to Washington, D.C., to protest for immigration reform on Wednesday. RACINE — While most students exited Horlick High School to head home Tuesday afternoon, a few dozen stayed back to voice their support for immigration reform.  “Today I’m leaving Horlick High School because I’m going to go even higher — by going to Washington, D.C. I’ll continue to fight for myself, for my friends and for my family,” said Luis Tapia, a junior at Horlick. “We’re all going to Washington, D.C., as one.”  The students were rallying outside of Horlick, 2119 Rapids Drive, to bring attention to the issue of immigration.  Tapia, along with about 60 other people from Wisconsin, was to travel by bus Tuesday night to Washington to advocate for immigration reform and a “clean” DREAM Act, which would provide a path to citizenship to undocumented individuals who were brought to the United States as children (often referred to as “Dreamers”) and protection for their families.  The students going on the trip planned the rally in front of the school Tuesday as a send-off before the long bus ride to the East Coast, where they were to join other protesters from across the country on Wednesday in the nation’s capital to lobby for passage of the DREAM Act. Racine Mayor Cory Mason attended the rally on Tuesday and thanked the students for their activism and told them “know you’re always welcome here.”Ricardo Torres covers federal, state and Racine County politics along with the Village of Mount Pleasant. He bleeds Wisconsin sports teams.  “I hope this is what my kids want to do when they’re in high school,” Mason said. “This is about achieving the American dream. All you want to do is be here, succeed in school and achieve the American dream like every other generation of immigrants that came before.”  Horlick teacher Aaron Eick also was present and voiced his support for the action the students were taking.  “It’s very important that these kids are going to D.C. to represent us and, as a teacher, I’m very proud to say that we stand with these children,” Eick said. ‘I want to show others how to be a leader’  Valeria Ruiz, organizer with Youth Empowered in the Struggle and a Horlick alum, has been to the nation’s capital “more than six times” to participate in protests for immigration reform.  When Ruiz was in high school she was active in the same cause.  “Now five, 10 years later, I’m an organizer and I’m again taking a delegation of not only (House Speaker) Paul Ryan constituents but also Dreamers and undocumented folks and their parents to D.C. to advocate for the same thing we were advocating for a long time ago,” Ruiz said.  Although the students will be missing a few days of school, Ruiz said “they’re not going on vacation.”  “They’re going for a reason … they’ll get the experience of people power, of community organization,” Ruiz said. “I’ve already gone through this leadership (experience) and I want to show others how to be a leader and develop them into strong leaders.” 
230	adjudicated	1	This story was reported by Rajvi Desai and Alison Fox. It was written by Nicole Brown and Lauren Cook.  Hundreds of protesters gathered outside of an Immigration and Customs Enforcement detention center on the Lower West Side Thursday, chanting “ICE out now” and demanding to know the whereabouts of a prominent immigrant rights leader, just hours after two city councilmen were arrested during a similar protest in Foley Square.  City councilmen Ydanis Rodriguez and Jumaane Williams were among 18 people who were arrested during the Foley Square protest sparked by the arrest of Ravi Ragbir, the executive director of the faith-based immigrant rights group New Sanctuary Coalition of New York City. Ragbir was detained when he showed up for a check-in with ICE, organizers of the rally said.  Outside of the ICE building at 201 Varick St. Thursday night, former City Council Speaker Melissa Mark-Viverito said she stands with Ragbir as well as her former colleagues who were arrested.  “I know Ravi personally; he is a man of grace, and community building. What is happening is the outrageousness of this administration that seeks to demonize anyone who is a person of color,” Mark-Viverito said. “We are tired of it, and that’s why I came down here today.”  Over 500 people lined the Varick Street sidewalk to take part in a form of prayer and protest known as a Jericho walk. Protesters walked a loop around the building, which takes up an entire city block between Varick and Hudson streets. Carrying signs that read “No walls,” “Human rights across all borders” and “Love restores our humanity,” protesters chanted “I stand with Ravi.”  As the protesters chanted a prayer that organizer and New Sanctuary co-chair Kaji Dousa said Ragbir says every Thursday, his wife Amy Gottlieb Ragbir held hands and cried heavily.  “I want to say thank you to everyone here today, that you love Ravi almost as much as I do,” she told the massive crowd. “He knows that we are going to win this fight and that no one is backing down that he will be with the immigrant communities of the city and that Ravi will be here leading the fight for year.”  Earlier Thursday, Grace Goodman, who is on the board of the New Sanctuary Coalition, said she and other members of the group went with Ragbir to his ICE check-in to participate in a different Jericho walk.  “We were informed that ICE had decided to detain Ravi,” she said. “Apparently, Ravi fainted and they took him out of the building in an ambulance.”  As Ragbir was taken away in an ambulance, Rodriguez, Williams and other protesters stood in the road, prompting police to push them aside so it could get through, video of the rally shows. Several people were arrested when they did not move onto the sidewalk, out of the way of the ambulance, Goodman said.  Rodriguez tweeted photos of himself being taken into police custody and accused the NYPD of putting him in a chokehold, a banned police tactic.  “This is NOT how you treat people who are protesting for Human Rights. This is NOT what democracy looks like,” he wrote.  NYPD Sgt. Jessica McRorie said video of officers’ interactions with Rodriguez is being reviewed.  “At this point, it appears the police were clearing a path for an ambulance with a patient inside that was en route to a hospital,” McRorie said in an emailed statement. “The NYPD was attempting to clear a path for that ambulance, which was purposely and repeatedly being blocked.”  Rodriguez was arraigned Thursday night on charges of obstructing an emergency medical service, reckless endangerment, disorderly conduct and resisting arrest, according to a law enforcement source.  Most of the other 17 people arrested, including Williams, were charged with disorderly conduct, reckless endangerment and/or obstructing an emergency medical service, police said.   Mayor Bill de Blasio was briefed on the protest and police activity, his spokesman Eric Phillips said in a tweet.  “The area is covered extensively by cameras and we’ll be reviewing the footage to get to the bottom of what happened,” he wrote.  Patrick Lynch, president of the Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association, said certain protesters at the Foley Square rally “intentionally escalated an already tense situation,” which put police and other protesters “at greater risk.”  “Our elected officials should know the difference between a peaceful protest and behavior that endangers public safety. Yet some of them have chosen repeatedly over the years to cross that line in order to raise their own profile,” Lynch said in an emailed statement. “Now more than ever, we need leadership, not showmanship.”  Ragbir came to the United States in 1991 from Trinidad and obtained a green card in 1994, but in 2006, a judge ordered him to be deported because of a 2001 wire fraud conviction, according to a group of community members and advocates who have fought for him to stay in the country.  He has been granted multiple stays of removal, but ICE agents told his lawyer, Alina Das, that they have the “power to make a discretionary choice,” she said.  “We are asking them, what’s the change, why now? And they are not giving us an answer.”  Ragbir handed Das his hat and a crucifix when he found out he was being detained, she said.  “The fight is not over today. We need your prayers to make sure Ravi knows we are going to continue fighting for him,” Das added. “He represents a good man — a father, a husband, a leader.”  Donna Schaper, pastor of Judson Memorial Church, said another New Sanctuary leader, Jean Montrevil, was detained last week and is now in Miami, Florida.  “We have no choice but to see these two incidents as a direct insult to the New Sanctuary movement,” Schaper said.  Now that Ragbir is in ICE custody, “it’s all in the hands of the courts now,” Schaper said.  Representatives from Sen. Chuck Schumer’s office have been in touch with Ragbir’s attorneys to offer assistance, a source with knowledge of the situation said.  About a dozen churchgoers and members of New Sanctuary gathered in the basement of Judson Memorial Church after the Foley Square protest to regroup and make a banner that prominently displayed the hashtag “#WeNeedRaviBackNow!”  During the Varick Street protest, a slew of elected officials and immigration advocates demanded New York City live up to its name as a so-called sanctuary city for immigrants. With no megaphones at hand, protesters used a human echo chain reminiscent of the Occupy Wall Street movement to relay what the speakers were saying.  Councilman Bard Lander lauded Williams and Rodriguez for “putting their bodies on the line.”  “Our new speaker, Corey Johnson, stood with Ravi today. He was very distressed to see what happened,” Lander added. “ . . . he made clear in this city we will continue to stand up for the rights of immigrants, for the right to peaceful protest and to be a sanctuary city.”  City Comptroller Scott Stringer said Ragbir’s arrest was an international disgrace.  “We will be out here to support Ravi and his family. I think about children that get separated from their mothers and fathers,” Stringer said. “This is not what America is all about. So, for all the freedom fighters here today, New York City has your back.”
231	adjudicated	2	DACA protesters stage funeral for their dreams By Camila Molina and Jonathan Alexander February 8, 2018, 7:32 PM DACA protesters clad in black carry a mock coffin signifying what the call the death of their dreams during a rally on Fayetteville Street in Raleigh, NC, Dec. 6, 2017.
232	adjudicated	3	 Hundreds rally in Downtown Las Vegas for Dreamers in danger of deportation By: Christopher King Posted at 9:16 PM, Dec 06, 2017 and last updated 2017-12-07 15:19:53-05  Hundreds of people rallied Wednesday  for young, undocumented immigrants. Demonstrators called on federal lawmakers to extend DACA or pass what they call a “Clean Dream Act,” which would provide a path to citizenship.  Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, DACA, let’s hundreds  of thousands of young undocumented immigrants brought here as kids, to temporarily live and work in the U.S. Work permits under the Obama-era program are due to expire in March.  Immigrant-rights groups say 13,000 dreamers, as they’re called, live here in Nevada.      Aranza Marmolejo is a first-year pre-nursing student at Nevada State College whose  parents brought her here from Mexico when she was three years old. Marmolejo is in danger of being deported next year to a country she knows little about.  "I'm not a criminal a murderer or a rapist or anything like that I am a student. I am a human a human being," said Marmolejo. "I'm a contributor to the economy. I pay my taxes. I have two jobs. I'm a full-time student." 
233	adjudicated	2	Berkeley College Republicans, or BCR, held a candlelight vigil for Kate Steinle on Thursday evening, garnering criticism from local activists.  The vigil took place on the steps of Sproul Hall, where participants laid down flowers and candles in memory of Steinle, who was fatally shot in San Francisco in 2015. Jose Ines Garcia Zarate, who was initially charged in connection with Steinle’s death, was acquitted of murder and manslaughter charges Nov. 30. BCR held the vigil in light of Garcia Zarate’s acquittal, according to BCR external vice president Naweed Tahmas.  “We were appalled and disappointed by the decision not to charge (Garcia Zarate) with murder or, at the very least, manslaughter,” Tahmas said. “We don’t want her name or memory to be forgotten.”  BCR arranged candles to spell out Steinle’s name and, according to Tahmas, organized a signed poster to send to the district attorney in the hopes that their condolences would reach the Steinle family. BCR organized the event without the family’s coordination, although Tahmas said BCR had tried to reach out to them.  About 20 people attended the vigil, which was met with both support and opposition from local activists. Raphael Kadaris, a member of Refuse Fascism, condemned BCR for politicizing Steinle’s death. He and two other members of the group held banners to demonstrate their support of immigration.  “These people don’t care about Kate Steinle,” Kadaris said. “They are using the tragic death of Kate Steinle to incite hatred and bigotry against immigrants.”  A crowd formed around Kadaris, whose banners accused Republicans of justifying “ethnic cleansing” and called for an end to the Donald Trump-Mike Pence administration. Kadaris also initiated an argument with the Refuse Fascism protesters about fascism. Bay Area resident Jeanne Solnordal, who said she attended the vigil because of the “unfair” verdict, engaged with Kadaris in debate and said she found his presence “disrespectful.”  BCR member Chase Aplin said he believed that the jury’s decision was an “injustice.” Aplin said he also believed “political vindictiveness” against Trump motivated the jury’s decision to release Garcia Zarate.  “Certain deaths should be politicized,” Aplin said. “This is a death that if the policies I support were in play, she would still be alive.”  Cal Berkeley Democrats president Caiden Nason briefly attended the event and expressed disapproval at the organization of the vigil, which he claimed “politicized” Steinle’s death against her family’s will.  Nason alleged that BCR was not hosting the event out of “the kindness of their heart,” but in order to provoke a response.  “I think there are good questions about whether the verdict was right, but this is not an immigration case and shouldn’t be turned into one,” said Nason. “A protest is only going to further politicize this awful thing that happened to this family.”
234	adjudicated	2	GREENFIELD — Greenfield residents recently received some unexpected mail.  Postcards distributed to mailboxes throughout town show, on one side, a green sign that reads “GREENFIELD WELCOMES ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS.” On the other, the postcard asks residents to call Rep. Paul Mark to demand he withdraw his support for a bill to make Massachusetts a sanctuary state.  The postcard, which was mailed by the Massachusetts Fiscal Alliance, upset numerous residents who gathered on the Town Common Saturday in protest.  “I was disgusted by the flier,” said Greenfield resident Jan Maher, who attended the demonstration with her husband, Doug Selwyn.  “This is just part of the ugliness happening from top to bottom,” Selwyn added.  The postcard campaign also resulted in a local officer of Mass. Fiscal Alliance quitting that group — as well as his seats on the Greenfield Community College Board of Trustees and a Baystate Franklin Medical Center advisory board. Dylan Korpita of Sunderland, who ran unsuccessfully for state Legislature three years ago, said Saturday he has left the Mass. Fiscal Alliance because he disagreed with the anti-migrant messaging.  At Saturday’s rally, Maher explained that when she saw the postcard, her first impression was that the it was pro-sanctuary state. It wasn’t until she read further that she realized it was the opposite, discouraging sanctuary states.  The demonstration was organized by Franklin County Continuing the Political Revolution (FCCPR), and led by FCCPR member David Cohen.  “They have been doing this all over the state, promoting this question that immigrants are the cause of our problems here in the United States,” Cohen said of the Massachusetts Fiscal Alliance. The organization’s website describes itself as a nonpartisan, nonprofit group focused on promoting social welfare.  Sean Cain, an aide to Rep. Paul Mark, read a statement from Mark. He described such postcards as becoming the norm in many parts of the country, and emphasized his desire to ensure “opportunity and fairness for anyone, regardless of what they look like.”  “We are going to stand up to these groups and fight back for the values we know are right,” Cain read. Local affiliation  The demonstrators also called out Korpita. When reached by email Saturday afternoon, Korpita said he is the only Mass. Alliance board member from western Massachusetts.  Cohen circulated a petition to have Korpita removed from his positions as a member of Greenfield Community College’s board of trustees and a member of the Community Advisory Council at Baystate Franklin Medical Center. But Korpita seemed to have gotten ahead of the protest with his weekend resignations.  “How are people going to use these public facilities?” Cohen asked, then, referring to immigrants, adding, “How are they gonna feel going to the hospital when someone sits on the board who wants to deport them?”  “Dylan Korpita does not belong on any of these boards,” said At-Large Town Councilor Karen “Rudy” Renaud, noting that residents haven’t seen the last of her proposed Safe City Ordinance, which was voted down by her fellow Greenfield town councilors last August. Member responds  Korpita told The Recorder Saturday he stepped down from his position as treasurer of Mass. Fiscal Alliance that morning after learning about the postcards, which local politicians and politically active residents were already talking about on Friday. Korpita said he also resigned from Baystate Franklin’s Community Advisory Council, and heeded GCC board of trustees Chairman Robert Cohn’s request to resign from the GCC board.  “I was involved in these groups to give back, not get ahead, and I will remain in Franklin County and find other ways to help my community,” he said.  Korpita said he didn’t know about the postcards before they were sent out, wasn’t involved in their mailing and doesn’t agree with their message.  “I got involved with (the Mass. Fiscal Alliance) because they were supposed to focus on budgetary and good governance issues,” he said. “This mailer does not do that, and drives a wedge between their organization and many members of the community both by the topic it addresses and the way that it addresses it. I had voiced my opposition within (the Mass. Fiscal Alliance) about the group getting involved in the sanctuary state bill issue when it was discussed in general.”  While the demonstration was centered around the postcards and the Mass. Fiscal Alliance, those involved hoped to send a broader message.  “We want to make crystal clear that Greenfield welcomes everyone,” said Colrain resident David Greenberg.  “Our experience is Greenfield has been incredibly welcoming to us,” said Maher, who moved to Greenfield about a year ago. “I would like to think that’d be true if I spoke Spanish as my native language, or if I was brown skinned. … But I know it isn’t, yet.”
235	adjudicated	4	SAN FRANCISCO (KGO) -- Hundreds of protesters countered a planned march in San Francisco against sanctuary cities.  "I'm here supporting our President and I'm here standing up against the radical left that supports protecting criminal aliens at the expense of American citizens," Fight Sanctuary State group member Ben Bergquam said.  The protest called to end sanctuary cities to protect Americans.  The group of about 30 people was met with dozens of demonstrators resisting their message of what they call "hate and racism."  "We're here to stand up to anti-immigrant bigotry, and we're here to say no to Donald Trump and his whole racist program of scapegoating, demonizing and deporting our immigrant brothers and sisters," Refuse Fascism group member Rafael Kadaris said.  San Francisco stirred an already heated debate about sanctuary cities when undocumented immigrant Jose Ines Garcia Zarate was charged with shooting and killing Kate Steinle in 2015.  City officials released him from custody before the shooting on Pier 14 without turning him over to immigration authorities. 
236	adjudicated	4	OAKLAND PARK (CBSMiami) – Protesters gathered outside Senator Bill Nelson’s office in Coral Gables on Wednesday to demand action on DACA. Local DACA recipient Nery Lopez isn’t cheering  a federal judge’s decision to block the Trump administrations plan to phase out protections for undocumented dreamers.  Her parents brought her from Mexico to Florida when she was four.  She’s a junior at Florida International University living in legal limbo.  “My permit expires in a year and I only have about three semesters left and I don’t know if I’ll be able to graduate on time if something happens and I lose my status,” Lopez said.  Lopez and a dozen other demonstrators talked their way into Senator Nelson’s Coral Gables office Wednesday afternoon.  They say they’re upset Nelson didn’t tie his support of the federal government spending bill to the Dream Act, which would protect childhood arrivals from deportation.Nelson said he’s all for the Dream Act and is pushing to get it passed.  But for the estimated 20,000 dreamers in Florida, there’s a fear time is running out.  Elizabeth Blandon is a South Florida immigration attorney who has represented hundreds of DACA recipients.  She’s calling the latest court ruling a ‘temporary victory.’  “This is gonna battle out in the courts for a few years, unless congress decides earlier, which I hope they will,” Blandon said.  She also said dreamers need to follow whatever path to citizenship may work, and it starts with talking to an Immigration lawyer. “If you can get DACA, great,” she said. “But even if you can, there might be other things we can do for you. If you never go speak to an immigration attorney, you will never know.”
237	adjudicated	2	"The Washington Times - Wednesday, December 20, 2017  Hundreds of illegal immigrant “Dreamers” were taking to the halls of the U.S. Capitol complex Wednesday to complain they were being left behind by congressional leaders working on a year-end deal that does not grant them full citizenship rights.  The Dreamers were particularly angered that Democrats, who they were counting on to engage in a shutdown showdown over their fate, appear to have backed off and are willing to grant another month-long funding bill without a an solution in hand.  The activists, wearing red stocking hats and T-shirts, marched and lay down in hallways to try to slow business in the office buildings that ring the Capitol. They broadcast the actions live on Facebook.  “We want Dream Act,” protesters chanted, referring to a bill that would grant tentative legal status to more than 2 million illegal immigrants, and would see 1.7 million of them earn a green card signifying permanent legal presence, according to the Migration Policy Institute.  Wednesday’s protests are the latest in a series that have seen Dreamers arrested while staging sit-in protests in lawmakers’ offices.  The Dreamers had set a year-end deadline for Congress to grant them a more permanent status than the legally suspect Obama-era DACA deportation amnesty, which President Trump announced earlier this year that he was phasing out.  Mr. Trump set a six-month phaseout that will kick in March 5, but Dreamers said they wanted status well before that deadline.  They had encouraged Democrats to withhold support for a year-end spending bill, risking a government shutdown, unless a full legalization program was included.  After holding firm initially, Democratic leaders and some GOP applies have since backed off that insistence, saying the issue could be dealt with early next year.  Sen. Jeff Flake, Arizona Republican, said Wednesday that he has assurances the DACA issue will be taken up in January. He said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell “has committed to bring the bipartisan DACA bill we are currently negotiating to the Senate floor” next month."
238	adjudicated	2	[Image: Local Dreamers and members of the Laredo Immigrant Alliance participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference.dr] 1of59  Local Dreamers and members of the Laredo Immigrant Alliance participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference.dr Cuate Santos/Laredo Morning Times  [Image: Local Dreamers and members of the Laredo Immigrant Alliance participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference.] 2of59  Local Dreamers and members of the Laredo Immigrant Alliance participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference. Cuate Santos/Laredo Morning Times 3of59  [Image: Local Dreamers and members of the Laredo Immigrant Alliance participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference.] 4of59  Local Dreamers and members of the Laredo Immigrant Alliance participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference. Cuate Santos/Laredo Morning Times  [Image: Local Dreamers and members of the Laredo Immigrant Alliance participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference.] 5of59  Local Dreamers and members of the Laredo Immigrant Alliance participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference. Cuate Santos/Laredo Morning Times 6of59  [Image: Local Dreamers and members of the Laredo Immigrant Alliance participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference.] 7of59  Local Dreamers and members of the Laredo Immigrant Alliance participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference. Cuate Santos/Laredo Morning Times  [Image: Local Dreamers, from left, Jose Saldaña, Ena Vega and Alberto Castilleja-Morales were among the group who participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference.] 8of59  Local Dreamers, from left, Jose Saldaña, Ena Vega and Alberto Castilleja-Morales were among the group who participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference. Cuate Santos/Laredo Morning Times 9of59  [Image: To be eligible for DACA applicants must have come to the US before 2007 and age 15, remained in the country since, pursuing an education--either high school or collegiate--and must not have been convicted of any felonies or more than three misdemeanors. ] 10of59To be eligible for DACA applicants must have come to the US before 2007 and age 15, remained in the country since, pursuing an education--either high school or collegiate--and must not have been convicted of any felonies or more than three misdemeanors. Kirk Sides  [Image: No new initial applications are being accepted at this time however some renewals for those whose DACA would expire before March 2018 are being taken, though most organizations who assist with DACA require you to file before Oct. 5.] 11of59No new initial applications are being accepted at this time however some renewals for those whose DACA would expire before March 2018 are being taken, though most organizations who assist with DACA require you to file before Oct. 5.Getty/Dietmar Fuhrmann/Eyeem 12of59  [Image: For DACA recipients who are students at any of the University of Houston’s campuses there are a litany of resources available including an immigration clinic ran through the school’s Law Center, scholarships available through organizations such as the Urban Experience Program and counseling available through the school’s Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS).] 13of59For DACA recipients who are students at any of the University of Houston’s campuses there are a litany of resources available including an immigration clinic ran through the school’s Law Center, scholarships available through organizations such as the Urban Experience Program and counseling available through the school’s Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS).Mark Mulligan/Mark Mulligan / Houston Chronicle  [Image: The Cabrini Center for Immigrant Legal Assistance, operated through Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Galveston Houston recently received a new grant from the Texas Access to Justice Foundation which they are using to provide outreach, workshops and application assistance at no cost to DACA applicants from Harris and surrounding counties like Galveston, Brazoria, Fort Bend and Montgomery. The Cabrini Center is located 2900 Louisiana St. in Houston.] 14of59The Cabrini Center for Immigrant Legal Assistance, operated through Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Galveston Houston recently received a new grant from the Texas Access to Justice Foundation which they are using to provide outreach, workshops and application assistance at no cost to DACA applicants from Harris and surrounding counties like Galveston, Brazoria, Fort Bend and Montgomery. The Cabrini Center is located 2900 Louisiana St. in Houston.Damian Dovarganes/STF 15of59  [Image: Though immigration cases are somewhat uncommon for them, Houston organizations Lone Star Legal Aid and Houston Volunteer Lawyers provide pro bono legal work to low income Houstonians in need of representation.] 16of59  Though immigration cases are somewhat uncommon for them, Houston organizations Lone Star Legal Aid and Houston Volunteer Lawyers provide pro bono legal work to low income Houstonians in need of representation. Jacquelyn Martin/STF  [Image: With nearly 97 percent of the 800,000 people who have received DACA currently employed, if they were to lose their jobs due to the program being taken away the U.S. economy could lose $460.3 billion from the national GDP and $24.6 billion in contributions to social security and Medicare contributions, according to a study by the Center for American Progress.] 17of59With nearly 97 percent of the 800,000 people who have received DACA currently employed, if they were to lose their jobs due to the program being taken away the U.S. economy could lose $460.3 billion from the national GDP and $24.6 billion in contributions to social security and Medicare contributions, according to a study by the Center for American Progress.Mike Groll/STF 18of59  [Image: Filling out forms to reapply for DACA can be confusing and expensive, especially for young adults who till recently may have relied on their parents or lawyers to handle the matter. Organizations such as United We Dream help DACA recipients in filling out their legal paperwork and for those who emigrated from Mexico the Consulate on San Jacinto St provides these services free of charge.] 19of59Filling out forms to reapply for DACA can be confusing and expensive, especially for young adults who till recently may have relied on their parents or lawyers to handle the matter. Organizations such as United We Dream help DACA recipients in filling out their legal paperwork and for those who emigrated from Mexico the Consulate on San Jacinto St provides these services free of charge.Richard Vogel/STF  [Image: Alonso Guillen, a rescuer who died during Hurricane Harvey when his boat capsized, was a beneficiary of the DACA program and alongside many others like him, a hero during Hurricane Harvey. Houstonian DACA recipients could be found working as rescuers, firefighters, working in call centers and volunteering at shelters throughout the storm.] 20of59Alonso Guillen, a rescuer who died during Hurricane Harvey when his boat capsized, was a beneficiary of the DACA program and alongside many others like him, a hero during Hurricane Harvey. Houstonian DACA recipients could be found working as rescuers, firefighters, working in call centers and volunteering at shelters throughout the storm.  Godofredo A. Vasquez/Houston Chronicle 21of59  [Image: Immigration activists protesting the Trump administration's decision on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals are arrested by New York City Police (NYPD) officers after they sat in the street and blocked traffic on 5th Avenue near Trump Tower, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA.] 22of59  Immigration activists protesting the Trump administration's decision on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals are arrested by New York City Police (NYPD) officers after they sat in the street and blocked traffic on 5th Avenue near Trump Tower, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA. Drew Angerer/Getty Images  [Image: Hundreds of people take to the streets to protest President Trump's decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, opening up hundreds of thousands of immigrants who were brought to the United States when they were children for deportation in Washington, United States on September 05, 2017.] 23of59  Hundreds of people take to the streets to protest President Trump's decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, opening up hundreds of thousands of immigrants who were brought to the United States when they were children for deportation in Washington, United States on September 05, 2017. Anadolu Agency/Getty Images 24of59  [Image: Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation.] 25of59  Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation. PAUL J. RICHARDS/AFP/Getty Images  [Image: Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation.] 26of59  Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation. PAUL J. RICHARDS/AFP/Getty Images 27of59  [Image: Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation.] 28of59  Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation. PAUL J. RICHARDS/AFP/Getty Images  [Image: Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation.] 29of59  Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation. PAUL J. RICHARDS/AFP/Getty Images 30of59  [Image: Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation.] 31of59  Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation. PAUL J. RICHARDS/AFP/Getty Images  [Image: "Dreamer" Gloria Mendoza, 26, (R) wipes back tears after learning of the Trump Administration decision to end the DACA program while at a protest near Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York City, United States. Both Mendoza and fellow Dreamer Jovan Rodrigo, (L), said they were each brought to the United States from Mexico by their parents when they were children. The Trump administration announced it is ending the Obama-era DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018.] 32of59  "Dreamer" Gloria Mendoza, 26, (R) wipes back tears after learning of the Trump Administration decision to end the DACA program while at a protest near Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York City, United States. Both Mendoza and fellow Dreamer Jovan Rodrigo, (L), said they were each brought to the United States from Mexico by their parents when they were children. The Trump administration announced it is ending the Obama-era DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018. John Moore/Getty Images 33of59  [Image: Protesters demonstrate in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York City, United States. The Trump administration announced it is ending the Obama-era DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018.] 34of59  Protesters demonstrate in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York City, United States. The Trump administration announced it is ending the Obama-era DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018. John Moore/Getty Images  [Image: "Dreamers" stage a sit-in while blocking the street in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York City, United States. The Trump administration announced it is ending the Obama-era DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018.] 35of59  "Dreamers" stage a sit-in while blocking the street in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York City, United States. The Trump administration announced it is ending the Obama-era DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018. John Moore/Getty Images 36of59  [Image: Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation.] 37of59  Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation. PAUL J. RICHARDS/AFP/Getty Images  [Image: "Dreamer" Gloria Mendoza, 26, (C) and others watch as fellow protesters are arrested after learning that President Trump had ended the DACA program on September 5, 2017 in New York, United States. Mendoza, who said she came with her undocumented parents from Mexico City when she was 9, will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program expires March 5, 2018, if Congress does not take action. Police arrested demonstrators for blocking the intersection in front of Trump Tower in midtown Manhattan.] 38of59  "Dreamer" Gloria Mendoza, 26, (C) and others watch as fellow protesters are arrested after learning that President Trump had ended the DACA program on September 5, 2017 in New York, United States. Mendoza, who said she came with her undocumented parents from Mexico City when she was 9, will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program expires March 5, 2018, if Congress does not take action. Police arrested demonstrators for blocking the intersection in front of Trump Tower in midtown Manhattan. John Moore/Getty Images 39of59  [Image: New York City police arrest protesters who staged a sit in in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York, United States. The Trump administration announced they are ending the DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018.] 40of59  New York City police arrest protesters who staged a sit in in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York, United States. The Trump administration announced they are ending the DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018. John Moore/Getty Images  [Image: Immigration rights demonstrators march past a "Stand Against Hate sign across the street form the Justice Department as they protest President Trump's decision to end the DACA program for "dreamers" on Tuesday, Sept. 5, 2017.] 41of59  Immigration rights demonstrators march past a "Stand Against Hate sign across the street form the Justice Department as they protest President Trump's decision to end the DACA program for "dreamers" on Tuesday, Sept. 5, 2017. Bill Clark/CQ-Roll Call, Inc. 42of59  [Image: New York City police arrest protesters who staged a sit-in in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York, United States. The Trump administration announced they are ending the DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018.] 43of59  New York City police arrest protesters who staged a sit-in in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York, United States. The Trump administration announced they are ending the DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018. John Moore/Getty Images  [Image: Protesters stage a sit-in while broking the street in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York City, United States. The Trump administration announced it is ending the Obama-era DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018.] 44of59  Protesters stage a sit-in while broking the street in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York City, United States. The Trump administration announced it is ending the Obama-era DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018. John Moore/Getty Images 45of59  [Image: Journalists photograph "Dreamer" protesters blocking the street in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York City, United States. The Trump administration announced it is ending the Obama-era DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018.] 46of59  Journalists photograph "Dreamer" protesters blocking the street in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York City, United States. The Trump administration announced it is ending the Obama-era DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018. John Moore/Getty Images  [Image: New York City police arrest a protester in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York, United States. The Trump administration announced it is ending the DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018.] 47of59  New York City police arrest a protester in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York, United States. The Trump administration announced it is ending the DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018. John Moore/Getty Images 48of59  [Image: Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation.] 49of59  Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation. PAUL J. RICHARDS/AFP/Getty Images  [Image: Immigration activists rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program during a protest in Grand Army Plaza in Manhattan, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA.] 50of59  Immigration activists rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program during a protest in Grand Army Plaza in Manhattan, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA. Drew Angerer/Getty Images 51of59  [Image: A woman shouts slogans as hundreds of people take to the streets to protest President Trump's decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, opening up hundreds of thousands of immigrants who were brought to the United States when they were children for deportation in Washington, United States on September 05, 2017.] 52of59  A woman shouts slogans as hundreds of people take to the streets to protest President Trump's decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, opening up hundreds of thousands of immigrants who were brought to the United States when they were children for deportation in Washington, United States on September 05, 2017. Anadolu Agency/Getty Images  [Image: Immigration activists protesting the Trump administration's decision on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals are arrested by New York City Police (NYPD) officers after they sat in the street and blocked traffic on 5th Avenue near Trump Tower, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA.] 53of59  Immigration activists protesting the Trump administration's decision on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals are arrested by New York City Police (NYPD) officers after they sat in the street and blocked traffic on 5th Avenue near Trump Tower, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA. Drew Angerer/Getty Images 54of59  [Image: (L to R) Dayana Arrue, Sofia Ruales, and Erica Ruales, all in their early 20s and Ã?”dreamersÃ?• originally from Ecuador, listen to Attorney General Jeff Sessions' remarks on ending the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program on Sofia's smartphone before a protest in Grand Army Plaza in Manhattan, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA.] 55of59  (L to R) Dayana Arrue, Sofia Ruales, and Erica Ruales, all in their early 20s and Ã?”dreamersÃ?• originally from Ecuador, listen to Attorney General Jeff Sessions' remarks on ending the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program on Sofia's smartphone before a protest in Grand Army Plaza in Manhattan, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA. Drew Angerer/Getty Images  [Image: Immigration activists protesting the Trump administration's decision on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals are arrested by New York City Police (NYPD) officers after they sat in the street and blocked traffic on 5th Avenue near Trump Tower, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA.] 56of59  Immigration activists protesting the Trump administration's decision on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals are arrested by New York City Police (NYPD) officers after they sat in the street and blocked traffic on 5th Avenue near Trump Tower, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA. Drew Angerer/Getty Images 57of59  [Image: Immigration activists protesting the Trump administration's decision on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals are arrested by New York City Police (NYPD) officers after they sat in the street and blocked traffic on 5th Avenue near Trump Tower, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)] 58of59  Immigration activists protesting the Trump administration's decision on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals are arrested by New York City Police (NYPD) officers after they sat in the street and blocked traffic on 5th Avenue near Trump Tower, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images) Drew Angerer/Getty Images 59of59  Armed with signs and a megaphone, a few DACA recipients took to the streets of Laredo in a demonstration to raise awareness about their status and demand that officials advocate on their behalf.  The Laredo Immigrant Alliance, a group led by DACA recipients and allies, organized a rally Tuesday afternoon outside of the local office of Congressman Henry Cuellar. They then marched to the Joe A. Guerra Public Library. Bystanders cheered as they drove down Calton Road in support of the rally.  RELATED: Judge temporarily preserves DACA program, blocking Trump plan  Jose Luis Saldaña, one of the organizers, said the main goal behind the event was to alert the public on how Laredo is getting involved.  "This is not only for big cities like Washington, D.C. They all are doing something for Dreamers. It's actually also small towns like Laredo, we also have Dreamers and especially in Webb County where we have 6,000," Saldaña said. "This is mainly to alert the community about what's happening. Many don't know."  According to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 1,300 people were registered under DACA in Laredo as of Sept. 4. Across Texas, there were 113,000.  Saldaña, 22, was brought to the United States when he was 2 years old. His family is from San Luis Potosi, a Mexican state in which over 45 percent of the population lives under the poverty line, according to the National Council for the Evaluation of Social Development Policy.  "I am worried simply because this DACA permit basically allows us to be here as immigrants. We are undocumented, but we do have that permit that allows us to work here, which is basically our lives. We live here, we work here, we contribute to the economy," he said. "If that ends then what are we?"  Saldaña said he found out he was undocumented in 2015 after graduating from LBJ High School.  "My mom broke it down for me, no San Antonio for me, no nothing else," he said, referencing that he can't travel into the interior U.S., pass the Border Patrol checkpoints.   After that, he said his mother filed the paperwork to register him under the DREAM Act and since then he has been able to maintain a job. Saldaña was able to renew his permit two months before President Donald Trump decided to put an end to the program. His permit expires in 2019.  "I am planning to stay here and hope nothing goes wrong, abide by the law. This will leads us back to the shadows, back to being afraid again. We have our local policemen out here to support us. We don't want to be afraid of them," Saldaña said when asked what were his plans if he wasn't able to renew his DACA status. "There is no plan B until now. Hopefully I get to go to college. I do want to go to college."  Another rally participant and Dreamer, Alberto Castillejo Morales, said he had recently traveled to Washington, D.C. and is ready to go again next week with United We Dream, a national organization that develops campaigns to fight for justice and dignity for immigrants at the local, state and federal levels.  "Most Dreamers I've met in Washington, they are Americans without papers," Castillejo said. "But living on the border, you see the diversity, you see it's not normal to have Border Patrol, is not normal to have militarization of the border. This thing shouldn't be normal. We should be supporting trade, supporting bridges, not walls, which is so pathetic to me. But I am excited to go next week to Washington, D.C. and talk with senators and hopefully get a DREAM Act passed or something."   Castillejo, who was 7 years old when he came to the United States, said he considers himself Mexican but adopted by the U.S. He is in the process of transferring to Texas A&M International University.  Ena Vega, another Laredoan who is going to D.C. next week to lobby on behalf of Dreamers, was holding a sign with U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz's office phone number. She was asking the community to call their elected representatives and pressure them to find a solution for the hundreds of thousands of immigrants who will lose their legal status.  "I encourage everyone witnessing this to step up and come with us and not just fight for DACA people, but fight for immigrant rights, because we are humans and this is not just a political issue, this is a community issue," Vega said.   We need to stand up for each other and fight for what we think is right.  "I am a DACA recipient, so I am fighting for my right to be here, because nobody can tell me where I belong and where I don't. It's just a paper. It's just a matter of a paper being signed for me to be a citizen. I've been here half of my life and the other half I was a child so I don't remember much. This is where I was raised. This is where I want to be. I don't want to go back to somewhere that I am not familiar with."
239	adjudicated	3	SAN DIEGO (NEWS 8/AP) - South Bay leaders came together Thursday to call for a permanent legislative solution for DACA recipients.  On December 5, the Chula Vista City Council unanimously passed a resolution urging the U.S. Congress to support the DREAM Act.   Local elected leaders, "Dreamers," and other community representatives will speak to the importance of passing a permanent legislative solution for DACA recipients before Congress heads home for the holidays.  DACA negotiations are still up in the air, as the year-end budget deadline nears.   The fate of hundreds of thousands of young immigrants living here illegally and facing deportation will be decided next year, a Republican senator says.  Arizona Sen. Jeff Flake said Wednesday he received assurances from Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., that the Senate will vote in January on bipartisan legislation. The promise came in talks with the GOP leader on Flake's backing for the tax bill.  "While I would have written a much different bill, this bill lowers the corporate tax rate in a manner that makes us globally competitive," Flake said in a statement. He said McConnell has made a commitment for a vote on the measure now being negotiated.  The White House and lawmakers are working out details of the bill, but Flake said in an interview with The Associated Press that the legislation will broadly address border security, asylum policy and a fix for certain young immigrants.  At issue is President Donald Trump's decision to rescind an Obama-era executive order that created the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which gave protected status to about 800,000 of those immigrants who are in the United States illegally. Popularly known as "Dreamers," many were brought here as infants or children and have known no other country except the U.S.  In scrapping the order, Trump gave Congress until March to come up with a legislative solution.  Flake said he and other lawmakers have worked with White House chief of staff John Kelly and other administration officials. Kelly outlined a list of White House priorities at a meeting on Tuesday and pledged to present a detailed list by Friday of border security and other policy changes it wants as part of a broader deal on the immigrants, Flake said.  "The White House is committed to moving forward in good faith," he said, calling the administration's plans "eminently reasonable and well thought-out."  Flake, a frequent Trump critic, said he has been impressed by Trump's commitment to protect the young immigrants.  "The president's instincts are better than the advice he sometimes gets," Flake said. "He says he wants to protect these kids. I believe him."  Democratic Sen. Dick Durbin, who wanted to find a remedy this year, said in a statement that he was thankful for Flake's efforts to keep the measure alive. But Durbin did not immediately agree to a January timetable.  "Bipartisan negotiations continue and we're fighting to pass this measure soon," said Durbin, D-Ill.  While Flake is confident the Senate will vote, it remains unclear whether the House will back such legislation. In 2013, the Senate supported a bipartisan bill overhauling the immigration system and providing a path to citizenship for some 11 million living here illegally. The measure died in the Republican-led House.  House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., has said that deporting the young immigrants is "not in our nation's interest." Ryan has said any immigration solution must include border security measures, though he said a wall along the entire U.S.-Mexico border, which Trump has urged, doesn't make sense.  Flake also downplayed the idea of a wall encompassing the 2,000-mile (3,219-kilometer) border, saying, "The wall is kind of a metaphor for border security."  In reality, the border measure will include fencing and other barriers, including sensors and other high-tech security techniques, he said.  Under the DACA program, the young immigrants get two-year permits that let them work and remain in the country. Trump rescinded the program this year, but he let immigrants renew their documents if those documents were set to expire between September and March.  The government says 132,000 of the 154,000 eligible renewals applied before an October deadline, leaving more than 20,000 without any protection from deportation.  Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., said he was disappointed that Flake would settle for action on immigration in January.  "Maybe that's the way he scrubs his conscience" to allow him to leave for the holidays, said Gutierrez, who has pushed for immediate action on Dreamers.  While Flake has been a consistent supporter of immigration reform, "it's not good enough," Gutierrez said.  "Sen. Flake was pretty good about giving a trillion-and-a-half dollars away to the wealthiest in the nation" by supporting the GOP tax bill, Gutierrez said. "Maybe he could give a little bit to those who want to be part of the nation."
240	adjudicated	2	SAN FRANCISCO (KGO) -- Hundreds of protesters countered a planned march in San Francisco against sanctuary cities.  "I'm here supporting our President and I'm here standing up against the radical left that supports protecting criminal aliens at the expense of American citizens," Fight Sanctuary State group member Ben Bergquam said.  The protest called to end sanctuary cities to protect Americans.  The group of about 30 people was met with dozens of demonstrators resisting their message of what they call "hate and racism."  "We're here to stand up to anti-immigrant bigotry, and we're here to say no to Donald Trump and his whole racist program of scapegoating, demonizing and deporting our immigrant brothers and sisters," Refuse Fascism group member Rafael Kadaris said.  San Francisco stirred an already heated debate about sanctuary cities when undocumented immigrant Jose Ines Garcia Zarate was charged with shooting and killing Kate Steinle in 2015.  City officials released him from custody before the shooting on Pier 14 without turning him over to immigration authorities. 
241	adjudicated	3	[Image: Local Dreamers and members of the Laredo Immigrant Alliance participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference.dr] 1of59  Local Dreamers and members of the Laredo Immigrant Alliance participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference.dr Cuate Santos/Laredo Morning Times  [Image: Local Dreamers and members of the Laredo Immigrant Alliance participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference.] 2of59  Local Dreamers and members of the Laredo Immigrant Alliance participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference. Cuate Santos/Laredo Morning Times 3of59  [Image: Local Dreamers and members of the Laredo Immigrant Alliance participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference.] 4of59  Local Dreamers and members of the Laredo Immigrant Alliance participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference. Cuate Santos/Laredo Morning Times  [Image: Local Dreamers and members of the Laredo Immigrant Alliance participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference.] 5of59  Local Dreamers and members of the Laredo Immigrant Alliance participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference. Cuate Santos/Laredo Morning Times 6of59  [Image: Local Dreamers and members of the Laredo Immigrant Alliance participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference.] 7of59  Local Dreamers and members of the Laredo Immigrant Alliance participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference. Cuate Santos/Laredo Morning Times  [Image: Local Dreamers, from left, Jose Saldaña, Ena Vega and Alberto Castilleja-Morales were among the group who participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference.] 8of59  Local Dreamers, from left, Jose Saldaña, Ena Vega and Alberto Castilleja-Morales were among the group who participated in a Rally in front of Congressman Henry Cuellar's office followed by a march to the Laredo Public Library where they held a press conference. Cuate Santos/Laredo Morning Times 9of59  [Image: To be eligible for DACA applicants must have come to the US before 2007 and age 15, remained in the country since, pursuing an education--either high school or collegiate--and must not have been convicted of any felonies or more than three misdemeanors. ] 10of59To be eligible for DACA applicants must have come to the US before 2007 and age 15, remained in the country since, pursuing an education--either high school or collegiate--and must not have been convicted of any felonies or more than three misdemeanors. Kirk Sides  [Image: No new initial applications are being accepted at this time however some renewals for those whose DACA would expire before March 2018 are being taken, though most organizations who assist with DACA require you to file before Oct. 5.] 11of59No new initial applications are being accepted at this time however some renewals for those whose DACA would expire before March 2018 are being taken, though most organizations who assist with DACA require you to file before Oct. 5.Getty/Dietmar Fuhrmann/Eyeem 12of59  [Image: For DACA recipients who are students at any of the University of Houston’s campuses there are a litany of resources available including an immigration clinic ran through the school’s Law Center, scholarships available through organizations such as the Urban Experience Program and counseling available through the school’s Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS).] 13of59For DACA recipients who are students at any of the University of Houston’s campuses there are a litany of resources available including an immigration clinic ran through the school’s Law Center, scholarships available through organizations such as the Urban Experience Program and counseling available through the school’s Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS).Mark Mulligan/Mark Mulligan / Houston Chronicle  [Image: The Cabrini Center for Immigrant Legal Assistance, operated through Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Galveston Houston recently received a new grant from the Texas Access to Justice Foundation which they are using to provide outreach, workshops and application assistance at no cost to DACA applicants from Harris and surrounding counties like Galveston, Brazoria, Fort Bend and Montgomery. The Cabrini Center is located 2900 Louisiana St. in Houston.] 14of59The Cabrini Center for Immigrant Legal Assistance, operated through Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Galveston Houston recently received a new grant from the Texas Access to Justice Foundation which they are using to provide outreach, workshops and application assistance at no cost to DACA applicants from Harris and surrounding counties like Galveston, Brazoria, Fort Bend and Montgomery. The Cabrini Center is located 2900 Louisiana St. in Houston.Damian Dovarganes/STF 15of59  [Image: Though immigration cases are somewhat uncommon for them, Houston organizations Lone Star Legal Aid and Houston Volunteer Lawyers provide pro bono legal work to low income Houstonians in need of representation.] 16of59  Though immigration cases are somewhat uncommon for them, Houston organizations Lone Star Legal Aid and Houston Volunteer Lawyers provide pro bono legal work to low income Houstonians in need of representation. Jacquelyn Martin/STF  [Image: With nearly 97 percent of the 800,000 people who have received DACA currently employed, if they were to lose their jobs due to the program being taken away the U.S. economy could lose $460.3 billion from the national GDP and $24.6 billion in contributions to social security and Medicare contributions, according to a study by the Center for American Progress.] 17of59With nearly 97 percent of the 800,000 people who have received DACA currently employed, if they were to lose their jobs due to the program being taken away the U.S. economy could lose $460.3 billion from the national GDP and $24.6 billion in contributions to social security and Medicare contributions, according to a study by the Center for American Progress.Mike Groll/STF 18of59  [Image: Filling out forms to reapply for DACA can be confusing and expensive, especially for young adults who till recently may have relied on their parents or lawyers to handle the matter. Organizations such as United We Dream help DACA recipients in filling out their legal paperwork and for those who emigrated from Mexico the Consulate on San Jacinto St provides these services free of charge.] 19of59Filling out forms to reapply for DACA can be confusing and expensive, especially for young adults who till recently may have relied on their parents or lawyers to handle the matter. Organizations such as United We Dream help DACA recipients in filling out their legal paperwork and for those who emigrated from Mexico the Consulate on San Jacinto St provides these services free of charge.Richard Vogel/STF  [Image: Alonso Guillen, a rescuer who died during Hurricane Harvey when his boat capsized, was a beneficiary of the DACA program and alongside many others like him, a hero during Hurricane Harvey. Houstonian DACA recipients could be found working as rescuers, firefighters, working in call centers and volunteering at shelters throughout the storm.] 20of59Alonso Guillen, a rescuer who died during Hurricane Harvey when his boat capsized, was a beneficiary of the DACA program and alongside many others like him, a hero during Hurricane Harvey. Houstonian DACA recipients could be found working as rescuers, firefighters, working in call centers and volunteering at shelters throughout the storm.  Godofredo A. Vasquez/Houston Chronicle 21of59  [Image: Immigration activists protesting the Trump administration's decision on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals are arrested by New York City Police (NYPD) officers after they sat in the street and blocked traffic on 5th Avenue near Trump Tower, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA.] 22of59  Immigration activists protesting the Trump administration's decision on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals are arrested by New York City Police (NYPD) officers after they sat in the street and blocked traffic on 5th Avenue near Trump Tower, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA. Drew Angerer/Getty Images  [Image: Hundreds of people take to the streets to protest President Trump's decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, opening up hundreds of thousands of immigrants who were brought to the United States when they were children for deportation in Washington, United States on September 05, 2017.] 23of59  Hundreds of people take to the streets to protest President Trump's decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, opening up hundreds of thousands of immigrants who were brought to the United States when they were children for deportation in Washington, United States on September 05, 2017. Anadolu Agency/Getty Images 24of59  [Image: Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation.] 25of59  Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation. PAUL J. RICHARDS/AFP/Getty Images  [Image: Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation.] 26of59  Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation. PAUL J. RICHARDS/AFP/Getty Images 27of59  [Image: Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation.] 28of59  Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation. PAUL J. RICHARDS/AFP/Getty Images  [Image: Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation.] 29of59  Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation. PAUL J. RICHARDS/AFP/Getty Images 30of59  [Image: Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation.] 31of59  Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation. PAUL J. RICHARDS/AFP/Getty Images  [Image: "Dreamer" Gloria Mendoza, 26, (R) wipes back tears after learning of the Trump Administration decision to end the DACA program while at a protest near Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York City, United States. Both Mendoza and fellow Dreamer Jovan Rodrigo, (L), said they were each brought to the United States from Mexico by their parents when they were children. The Trump administration announced it is ending the Obama-era DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018.] 32of59  "Dreamer" Gloria Mendoza, 26, (R) wipes back tears after learning of the Trump Administration decision to end the DACA program while at a protest near Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York City, United States. Both Mendoza and fellow Dreamer Jovan Rodrigo, (L), said they were each brought to the United States from Mexico by their parents when they were children. The Trump administration announced it is ending the Obama-era DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018. John Moore/Getty Images 33of59  [Image: Protesters demonstrate in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York City, United States. The Trump administration announced it is ending the Obama-era DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018.] 34of59  Protesters demonstrate in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York City, United States. The Trump administration announced it is ending the Obama-era DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018. John Moore/Getty Images  [Image: "Dreamers" stage a sit-in while blocking the street in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York City, United States. The Trump administration announced it is ending the Obama-era DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018.] 35of59  "Dreamers" stage a sit-in while blocking the street in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York City, United States. The Trump administration announced it is ending the Obama-era DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018. John Moore/Getty Images 36of59  [Image: Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation.] 37of59  Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation. PAUL J. RICHARDS/AFP/Getty Images  [Image: "Dreamer" Gloria Mendoza, 26, (C) and others watch as fellow protesters are arrested after learning that President Trump had ended the DACA program on September 5, 2017 in New York, United States. Mendoza, who said she came with her undocumented parents from Mexico City when she was 9, will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program expires March 5, 2018, if Congress does not take action. Police arrested demonstrators for blocking the intersection in front of Trump Tower in midtown Manhattan.] 38of59  "Dreamer" Gloria Mendoza, 26, (C) and others watch as fellow protesters are arrested after learning that President Trump had ended the DACA program on September 5, 2017 in New York, United States. Mendoza, who said she came with her undocumented parents from Mexico City when she was 9, will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program expires March 5, 2018, if Congress does not take action. Police arrested demonstrators for blocking the intersection in front of Trump Tower in midtown Manhattan. John Moore/Getty Images 39of59  [Image: New York City police arrest protesters who staged a sit in in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York, United States. The Trump administration announced they are ending the DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018.] 40of59  New York City police arrest protesters who staged a sit in in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York, United States. The Trump administration announced they are ending the DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018. John Moore/Getty Images  [Image: Immigration rights demonstrators march past a "Stand Against Hate sign across the street form the Justice Department as they protest President Trump's decision to end the DACA program for "dreamers" on Tuesday, Sept. 5, 2017.] 41of59  Immigration rights demonstrators march past a "Stand Against Hate sign across the street form the Justice Department as they protest President Trump's decision to end the DACA program for "dreamers" on Tuesday, Sept. 5, 2017. Bill Clark/CQ-Roll Call, Inc. 42of59  [Image: New York City police arrest protesters who staged a sit-in in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York, United States. The Trump administration announced they are ending the DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018.] 43of59  New York City police arrest protesters who staged a sit-in in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York, United States. The Trump administration announced they are ending the DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018. John Moore/Getty Images  [Image: Protesters stage a sit-in while broking the street in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York City, United States. The Trump administration announced it is ending the Obama-era DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018.] 44of59  Protesters stage a sit-in while broking the street in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York City, United States. The Trump administration announced it is ending the Obama-era DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018. John Moore/Getty Images 45of59  [Image: Journalists photograph "Dreamer" protesters blocking the street in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York City, United States. The Trump administration announced it is ending the Obama-era DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018.] 46of59  Journalists photograph "Dreamer" protesters blocking the street in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York City, United States. The Trump administration announced it is ending the Obama-era DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018. John Moore/Getty Images  [Image: New York City police arrest a protester in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York, United States. The Trump administration announced it is ending the DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018.] 47of59  New York City police arrest a protester in front of Trump Tower on September 5, 2017 in New York, United States. The Trump administration announced it is ending the DACA program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation. Up to 800,000 of them brought to the U.S. illegally as children will face possible deportation when the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is set to expire on March 5, 2018. John Moore/Getty Images 48of59  [Image: Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation.] 49of59  Immigrants and supporters demonstrate during a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in front of the Trump International Hotel on September 5, 2017 in Washington DC. Trump on Tuesday ended DACA for 800,000 people brought to the US illegally as minors, leaving their future in serious doubt and triggering a political firestorm. The so-called "Dreamers" now have between six months and just over two years until they become illegal US residents and subject to potential deportation. PAUL J. RICHARDS/AFP/Getty Images  [Image: Immigration activists rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program during a protest in Grand Army Plaza in Manhattan, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA.] 50of59  Immigration activists rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program during a protest in Grand Army Plaza in Manhattan, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA. Drew Angerer/Getty Images 51of59  [Image: A woman shouts slogans as hundreds of people take to the streets to protest President Trump's decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, opening up hundreds of thousands of immigrants who were brought to the United States when they were children for deportation in Washington, United States on September 05, 2017.] 52of59  A woman shouts slogans as hundreds of people take to the streets to protest President Trump's decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, opening up hundreds of thousands of immigrants who were brought to the United States when they were children for deportation in Washington, United States on September 05, 2017. Anadolu Agency/Getty Images  [Image: Immigration activists protesting the Trump administration's decision on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals are arrested by New York City Police (NYPD) officers after they sat in the street and blocked traffic on 5th Avenue near Trump Tower, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA.] 53of59  Immigration activists protesting the Trump administration's decision on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals are arrested by New York City Police (NYPD) officers after they sat in the street and blocked traffic on 5th Avenue near Trump Tower, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA. Drew Angerer/Getty Images 54of59  [Image: (L to R) Dayana Arrue, Sofia Ruales, and Erica Ruales, all in their early 20s and Ã?”dreamersÃ?• originally from Ecuador, listen to Attorney General Jeff Sessions' remarks on ending the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program on Sofia's smartphone before a protest in Grand Army Plaza in Manhattan, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA.] 55of59  (L to R) Dayana Arrue, Sofia Ruales, and Erica Ruales, all in their early 20s and Ã?”dreamersÃ?• originally from Ecuador, listen to Attorney General Jeff Sessions' remarks on ending the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program on Sofia's smartphone before a protest in Grand Army Plaza in Manhattan, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA. Drew Angerer/Getty Images  [Image: Immigration activists protesting the Trump administration's decision on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals are arrested by New York City Police (NYPD) officers after they sat in the street and blocked traffic on 5th Avenue near Trump Tower, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA.] 56of59  Immigration activists protesting the Trump administration's decision on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals are arrested by New York City Police (NYPD) officers after they sat in the street and blocked traffic on 5th Avenue near Trump Tower, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA. Drew Angerer/Getty Images 57of59  [Image: Immigration activists protesting the Trump administration's decision on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals are arrested by New York City Police (NYPD) officers after they sat in the street and blocked traffic on 5th Avenue near Trump Tower, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images)] 58of59  Immigration activists protesting the Trump administration's decision on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals are arrested by New York City Police (NYPD) officers after they sat in the street and blocked traffic on 5th Avenue near Trump Tower, September 5, 2017. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced they will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, with a six month delay. The decision represents a blow to young undocumented immigrants (also known as 'dreamers') who were shielded from deportation under DACA. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images) Drew Angerer/Getty Images 59of59  Armed with signs and a megaphone, a few DACA recipients took to the streets of Laredo in a demonstration to raise awareness about their status and demand that officials advocate on their behalf.  The Laredo Immigrant Alliance, a group led by DACA recipients and allies, organized a rally Tuesday afternoon outside of the local office of Congressman Henry Cuellar. They then marched to the Joe A. Guerra Public Library. Bystanders cheered as they drove down Calton Road in support of the rally.  RELATED: Judge temporarily preserves DACA program, blocking Trump plan  Jose Luis Saldaña, one of the organizers, said the main goal behind the event was to alert the public on how Laredo is getting involved.  "This is not only for big cities like Washington, D.C. They all are doing something for Dreamers. It's actually also small towns like Laredo, we also have Dreamers and especially in Webb County where we have 6,000," Saldaña said. "This is mainly to alert the community about what's happening. Many don't know."  According to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 1,300 people were registered under DACA in Laredo as of Sept. 4. Across Texas, there were 113,000.  Saldaña, 22, was brought to the United States when he was 2 years old. His family is from San Luis Potosi, a Mexican state in which over 45 percent of the population lives under the poverty line, according to the National Council for the Evaluation of Social Development Policy.  "I am worried simply because this DACA permit basically allows us to be here as immigrants. We are undocumented, but we do have that permit that allows us to work here, which is basically our lives. We live here, we work here, we contribute to the economy," he said. "If that ends then what are we?"  Saldaña said he found out he was undocumented in 2015 after graduating from LBJ High School.  "My mom broke it down for me, no San Antonio for me, no nothing else," he said, referencing that he can't travel into the interior U.S., pass the Border Patrol checkpoints.   After that, he said his mother filed the paperwork to register him under the DREAM Act and since then he has been able to maintain a job. Saldaña was able to renew his permit two months before President Donald Trump decided to put an end to the program. His permit expires in 2019.  "I am planning to stay here and hope nothing goes wrong, abide by the law. This will leads us back to the shadows, back to being afraid again. We have our local policemen out here to support us. We don't want to be afraid of them," Saldaña said when asked what were his plans if he wasn't able to renew his DACA status. "There is no plan B until now. Hopefully I get to go to college. I do want to go to college."  Another rally participant and Dreamer, Alberto Castillejo Morales, said he had recently traveled to Washington, D.C. and is ready to go again next week with United We Dream, a national organization that develops campaigns to fight for justice and dignity for immigrants at the local, state and federal levels.  "Most Dreamers I've met in Washington, they are Americans without papers," Castillejo said. "But living on the border, you see the diversity, you see it's not normal to have Border Patrol, is not normal to have militarization of the border. This thing shouldn't be normal. We should be supporting trade, supporting bridges, not walls, which is so pathetic to me. But I am excited to go next week to Washington, D.C. and talk with senators and hopefully get a DREAM Act passed or something."   Castillejo, who was 7 years old when he came to the United States, said he considers himself Mexican but adopted by the U.S. He is in the process of transferring to Texas A&M International University.  Ena Vega, another Laredoan who is going to D.C. next week to lobby on behalf of Dreamers, was holding a sign with U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz's office phone number. She was asking the community to call their elected representatives and pressure them to find a solution for the hundreds of thousands of immigrants who will lose their legal status.  "I encourage everyone witnessing this to step up and come with us and not just fight for DACA people, but fight for immigrant rights, because we are humans and this is not just a political issue, this is a community issue," Vega said.   We need to stand up for each other and fight for what we think is right.  "I am a DACA recipient, so I am fighting for my right to be here, because nobody can tell me where I belong and where I don't. It's just a paper. It's just a matter of a paper being signed for me to be a citizen. I've been here half of my life and the other half I was a child so I don't remember much. This is where I was raised. This is where I want to be. I don't want to go back to somewhere that I am not familiar with."
242	adjudicated	2	OAKLAND PARK (CBSMiami) – Protesters gathered outside Senator Bill Nelson’s office in Coral Gables on Wednesday to demand action on DACA. Local DACA recipient Nery Lopez isn’t cheering  a federal judge’s decision to block the Trump administrations plan to phase out protections for undocumented dreamers.  Her parents brought her from Mexico to Florida when she was four.  She’s a junior at Florida International University living in legal limbo.  “My permit expires in a year and I only have about three semesters left and I don’t know if I’ll be able to graduate on time if something happens and I lose my status,” Lopez said.  Lopez and a dozen other demonstrators talked their way into Senator Nelson’s Coral Gables office Wednesday afternoon.  They say they’re upset Nelson didn’t tie his support of the federal government spending bill to the Dream Act, which would protect childhood arrivals from deportation.Nelson said he’s all for the Dream Act and is pushing to get it passed.  But for the estimated 20,000 dreamers in Florida, there’s a fear time is running out.  Elizabeth Blandon is a South Florida immigration attorney who has represented hundreds of DACA recipients.  She’s calling the latest court ruling a ‘temporary victory.’  “This is gonna battle out in the courts for a few years, unless congress decides earlier, which I hope they will,” Blandon said.  She also said dreamers need to follow whatever path to citizenship may work, and it starts with talking to an Immigration lawyer. “If you can get DACA, great,” she said. “But even if you can, there might be other things we can do for you. If you never go speak to an immigration attorney, you will never know.”
243	adjudicated	2	This story was reported by Rajvi Desai and Alison Fox. It was written by Nicole Brown and Lauren Cook.  Hundreds of protesters gathered outside of an Immigration and Customs Enforcement detention center on the Lower West Side Thursday, chanting “ICE out now” and demanding to know the whereabouts of a prominent immigrant rights leader, just hours after two city councilmen were arrested during a similar protest in Foley Square.  City councilmen Ydanis Rodriguez and Jumaane Williams were among 18 people who were arrested during the Foley Square protest sparked by the arrest of Ravi Ragbir, the executive director of the faith-based immigrant rights group New Sanctuary Coalition of New York City. Ragbir was detained when he showed up for a check-in with ICE, organizers of the rally said.  Outside of the ICE building at 201 Varick St. Thursday night, former City Council Speaker Melissa Mark-Viverito said she stands with Ragbir as well as her former colleagues who were arrested.  “I know Ravi personally; he is a man of grace, and community building. What is happening is the outrageousness of this administration that seeks to demonize anyone who is a person of color,” Mark-Viverito said. “We are tired of it, and that’s why I came down here today.”  Over 500 people lined the Varick Street sidewalk to take part in a form of prayer and protest known as a Jericho walk. Protesters walked a loop around the building, which takes up an entire city block between Varick and Hudson streets. Carrying signs that read “No walls,” “Human rights across all borders” and “Love restores our humanity,” protesters chanted “I stand with Ravi.”  As the protesters chanted a prayer that organizer and New Sanctuary co-chair Kaji Dousa said Ragbir says every Thursday, his wife Amy Gottlieb Ragbir held hands and cried heavily.  “I want to say thank you to everyone here today, that you love Ravi almost as much as I do,” she told the massive crowd. “He knows that we are going to win this fight and that no one is backing down that he will be with the immigrant communities of the city and that Ravi will be here leading the fight for year.”  Earlier Thursday, Grace Goodman, who is on the board of the New Sanctuary Coalition, said she and other members of the group went with Ragbir to his ICE check-in to participate in a different Jericho walk.  “We were informed that ICE had decided to detain Ravi,” she said. “Apparently, Ravi fainted and they took him out of the building in an ambulance.”  As Ragbir was taken away in an ambulance, Rodriguez, Williams and other protesters stood in the road, prompting police to push them aside so it could get through, video of the rally shows. Several people were arrested when they did not move onto the sidewalk, out of the way of the ambulance, Goodman said.  Rodriguez tweeted photos of himself being taken into police custody and accused the NYPD of putting him in a chokehold, a banned police tactic.  “This is NOT how you treat people who are protesting for Human Rights. This is NOT what democracy looks like,” he wrote.  NYPD Sgt. Jessica McRorie said video of officers’ interactions with Rodriguez is being reviewed.  “At this point, it appears the police were clearing a path for an ambulance with a patient inside that was en route to a hospital,” McRorie said in an emailed statement. “The NYPD was attempting to clear a path for that ambulance, which was purposely and repeatedly being blocked.”  Rodriguez was arraigned Thursday night on charges of obstructing an emergency medical service, reckless endangerment, disorderly conduct and resisting arrest, according to a law enforcement source.  Most of the other 17 people arrested, including Williams, were charged with disorderly conduct, reckless endangerment and/or obstructing an emergency medical service, police said.   Mayor Bill de Blasio was briefed on the protest and police activity, his spokesman Eric Phillips said in a tweet.  “The area is covered extensively by cameras and we’ll be reviewing the footage to get to the bottom of what happened,” he wrote.  Patrick Lynch, president of the Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association, said certain protesters at the Foley Square rally “intentionally escalated an already tense situation,” which put police and other protesters “at greater risk.”  “Our elected officials should know the difference between a peaceful protest and behavior that endangers public safety. Yet some of them have chosen repeatedly over the years to cross that line in order to raise their own profile,” Lynch said in an emailed statement. “Now more than ever, we need leadership, not showmanship.”  Ragbir came to the United States in 1991 from Trinidad and obtained a green card in 1994, but in 2006, a judge ordered him to be deported because of a 2001 wire fraud conviction, according to a group of community members and advocates who have fought for him to stay in the country.  He has been granted multiple stays of removal, but ICE agents told his lawyer, Alina Das, that they have the “power to make a discretionary choice,” she said.  “We are asking them, what’s the change, why now? And they are not giving us an answer.”  Ragbir handed Das his hat and a crucifix when he found out he was being detained, she said.  “The fight is not over today. We need your prayers to make sure Ravi knows we are going to continue fighting for him,” Das added. “He represents a good man — a father, a husband, a leader.”  Donna Schaper, pastor of Judson Memorial Church, said another New Sanctuary leader, Jean Montrevil, was detained last week and is now in Miami, Florida.  “We have no choice but to see these two incidents as a direct insult to the New Sanctuary movement,” Schaper said.  Now that Ragbir is in ICE custody, “it’s all in the hands of the courts now,” Schaper said.  Representatives from Sen. Chuck Schumer’s office have been in touch with Ragbir’s attorneys to offer assistance, a source with knowledge of the situation said.  About a dozen churchgoers and members of New Sanctuary gathered in the basement of Judson Memorial Church after the Foley Square protest to regroup and make a banner that prominently displayed the hashtag “#WeNeedRaviBackNow!”  During the Varick Street protest, a slew of elected officials and immigration advocates demanded New York City live up to its name as a so-called sanctuary city for immigrants. With no megaphones at hand, protesters used a human echo chain reminiscent of the Occupy Wall Street movement to relay what the speakers were saying.  Councilman Bard Lander lauded Williams and Rodriguez for “putting their bodies on the line.”  “Our new speaker, Corey Johnson, stood with Ravi today. He was very distressed to see what happened,” Lander added. “ . . . he made clear in this city we will continue to stand up for the rights of immigrants, for the right to peaceful protest and to be a sanctuary city.”  City Comptroller Scott Stringer said Ragbir’s arrest was an international disgrace.  “We will be out here to support Ravi and his family. I think about children that get separated from their mothers and fathers,” Stringer said. “This is not what America is all about. So, for all the freedom fighters here today, New York City has your back.”
244	adjudicated	4	"The Washington Times - Wednesday, December 20, 2017  Hundreds of illegal immigrant “Dreamers” were taking to the halls of the U.S. Capitol complex Wednesday to complain they were being left behind by congressional leaders working on a year-end deal that does not grant them full citizenship rights.  The Dreamers were particularly angered that Democrats, who they were counting on to engage in a shutdown showdown over their fate, appear to have backed off and are willing to grant another month-long funding bill without a an solution in hand.  The activists, wearing red stocking hats and T-shirts, marched and lay down in hallways to try to slow business in the office buildings that ring the Capitol. They broadcast the actions live on Facebook.  “We want Dream Act,” protesters chanted, referring to a bill that would grant tentative legal status to more than 2 million illegal immigrants, and would see 1.7 million of them earn a green card signifying permanent legal presence, according to the Migration Policy Institute.  Wednesday’s protests are the latest in a series that have seen Dreamers arrested while staging sit-in protests in lawmakers’ offices.  The Dreamers had set a year-end deadline for Congress to grant them a more permanent status than the legally suspect Obama-era DACA deportation amnesty, which President Trump announced earlier this year that he was phasing out.  Mr. Trump set a six-month phaseout that will kick in March 5, but Dreamers said they wanted status well before that deadline.  They had encouraged Democrats to withhold support for a year-end spending bill, risking a government shutdown, unless a full legalization program was included.  After holding firm initially, Democratic leaders and some GOP applies have since backed off that insistence, saying the issue could be dealt with early next year.  Sen. Jeff Flake, Arizona Republican, said Wednesday that he has assurances the DACA issue will be taken up in January. He said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell “has committed to bring the bipartisan DACA bill we are currently negotiating to the Senate floor” next month."
245	adjudicated	3	GREENFIELD — Greenfield residents recently received some unexpected mail.  Postcards distributed to mailboxes throughout town show, on one side, a green sign that reads “GREENFIELD WELCOMES ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS.” On the other, the postcard asks residents to call Rep. Paul Mark to demand he withdraw his support for a bill to make Massachusetts a sanctuary state.  The postcard, which was mailed by the Massachusetts Fiscal Alliance, upset numerous residents who gathered on the Town Common Saturday in protest.  “I was disgusted by the flier,” said Greenfield resident Jan Maher, who attended the demonstration with her husband, Doug Selwyn.  “This is just part of the ugliness happening from top to bottom,” Selwyn added.  The postcard campaign also resulted in a local officer of Mass. Fiscal Alliance quitting that group — as well as his seats on the Greenfield Community College Board of Trustees and a Baystate Franklin Medical Center advisory board. Dylan Korpita of Sunderland, who ran unsuccessfully for state Legislature three years ago, said Saturday he has left the Mass. Fiscal Alliance because he disagreed with the anti-migrant messaging.  At Saturday’s rally, Maher explained that when she saw the postcard, her first impression was that the it was pro-sanctuary state. It wasn’t until she read further that she realized it was the opposite, discouraging sanctuary states.  The demonstration was organized by Franklin County Continuing the Political Revolution (FCCPR), and led by FCCPR member David Cohen.  “They have been doing this all over the state, promoting this question that immigrants are the cause of our problems here in the United States,” Cohen said of the Massachusetts Fiscal Alliance. The organization’s website describes itself as a nonpartisan, nonprofit group focused on promoting social welfare.  Sean Cain, an aide to Rep. Paul Mark, read a statement from Mark. He described such postcards as becoming the norm in many parts of the country, and emphasized his desire to ensure “opportunity and fairness for anyone, regardless of what they look like.”  “We are going to stand up to these groups and fight back for the values we know are right,” Cain read. Local affiliation  The demonstrators also called out Korpita. When reached by email Saturday afternoon, Korpita said he is the only Mass. Alliance board member from western Massachusetts.  Cohen circulated a petition to have Korpita removed from his positions as a member of Greenfield Community College’s board of trustees and a member of the Community Advisory Council at Baystate Franklin Medical Center. But Korpita seemed to have gotten ahead of the protest with his weekend resignations.  “How are people going to use these public facilities?” Cohen asked, then, referring to immigrants, adding, “How are they gonna feel going to the hospital when someone sits on the board who wants to deport them?”  “Dylan Korpita does not belong on any of these boards,” said At-Large Town Councilor Karen “Rudy” Renaud, noting that residents haven’t seen the last of her proposed Safe City Ordinance, which was voted down by her fellow Greenfield town councilors last August. Member responds  Korpita told The Recorder Saturday he stepped down from his position as treasurer of Mass. Fiscal Alliance that morning after learning about the postcards, which local politicians and politically active residents were already talking about on Friday. Korpita said he also resigned from Baystate Franklin’s Community Advisory Council, and heeded GCC board of trustees Chairman Robert Cohn’s request to resign from the GCC board.  “I was involved in these groups to give back, not get ahead, and I will remain in Franklin County and find other ways to help my community,” he said.  Korpita said he didn’t know about the postcards before they were sent out, wasn’t involved in their mailing and doesn’t agree with their message.  “I got involved with (the Mass. Fiscal Alliance) because they were supposed to focus on budgetary and good governance issues,” he said. “This mailer does not do that, and drives a wedge between their organization and many members of the community both by the topic it addresses and the way that it addresses it. I had voiced my opposition within (the Mass. Fiscal Alliance) about the group getting involved in the sanctuary state bill issue when it was discussed in general.”  While the demonstration was centered around the postcards and the Mass. Fiscal Alliance, those involved hoped to send a broader message.  “We want to make crystal clear that Greenfield welcomes everyone,” said Colrain resident David Greenberg.  “Our experience is Greenfield has been incredibly welcoming to us,” said Maher, who moved to Greenfield about a year ago. “I would like to think that’d be true if I spoke Spanish as my native language, or if I was brown skinned. … But I know it isn’t, yet.”
246	adjudicated	3	 Hundreds rally in Downtown Las Vegas for Dreamers in danger of deportation By: Christopher King Posted at 9:16 PM, Dec 06, 2017 and last updated 2017-12-07 15:19:53-05  Hundreds of people rallied Wednesday  for young, undocumented immigrants. Demonstrators called on federal lawmakers to extend DACA or pass what they call a “Clean Dream Act,” which would provide a path to citizenship.  Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, DACA, let’s hundreds  of thousands of young undocumented immigrants brought here as kids, to temporarily live and work in the U.S. Work permits under the Obama-era program are due to expire in March.  Immigrant-rights groups say 13,000 dreamers, as they’re called, live here in Nevada.      Aranza Marmolejo is a first-year pre-nursing student at Nevada State College whose  parents brought her here from Mexico when she was three years old. Marmolejo is in danger of being deported next year to a country she knows little about.  "I'm not a criminal a murderer or a rapist or anything like that I am a student. I am a human a human being," said Marmolejo. "I'm a contributor to the economy. I pay my taxes. I have two jobs. I'm a full-time student." 
247	adjudicated	4	DACA protesters stage funeral for their dreams By Camila Molina and Jonathan Alexander February 8, 2018, 7:32 PM DACA protesters clad in black carry a mock coffin signifying what the call the death of their dreams during a rally on Fayetteville Street in Raleigh, NC, Dec. 6, 2017.
248	adjudicated	3	[Image:meridencityhall_wikimediacommons_180206.jpg] Joe Mabel / Wikimedia Commons Meriden City Hall  More than 50 immigrant rights activists squeezed into Meriden City Hall for a council meeting Monday night to ask the city to support undocumented immigrants who live there. That includes Nelly Cumbicos, who was set to be deported to her native Ecuador in two weeks.  On Monday, a federal immigration judge granted Cumbicos a one-year temporary stay to explore her legal options. Cumbicos spoke at the meeting through an interpreter.  “There are countless others like me who have been targeted and live in fear. Please, make Meriden a town that fights for the rights of its citizens and keeps families together.”  Cumbicos says several Meriden residents have faced harassment and deportation since President Donald Trump’s inauguration.  That includes one couple, who also received a deportation stay last fall. A Meriden church has also offered sanctuary to a 70-year-old Indonesian man from West Hartford.  Cumbicos says she came to the United States illegally from Ecuador after her father’s store was burned down. She fears for her safety there. She would leave behind a husband and teenage son. 
249	adjudicated	2	Tensions escalated this week at UC Merced after a conservative student club demonstrated on campus, carrying homemade signs encouraging people to report undocumented immigrants.  UC Merced’s College Republican club held up signs on campus that read “ICE ICE Baby” and on the back included the number for Immigration and Customs Enforcement.  Another sign read “I Love Undocumented Firearms."  In a statement sent to students and faculty, UC Merced Chancellor Dorothy Leland said the signs from the College Republicans “disturbed many of us.”  “It troubles me to think that some in our Bobcat family would wish harm upon them and that through their speech, they would deliberately introduce added stress and anxiety into their fellow students’ lives,” Leland said in the statement.  Leland went on to say the signs violated UC Merced’s Principles of Community, which promote inclusion and “cultivating a campus climate rooted in mutual respect and compassion,” the principles say.  The signs were “clearly intended to create an unwelcome environment for our nearly 600 undocumented students,” Leland said.  However, the chancellor also said the club has the First-Amendment right to express their political views even “if others would consider them offensive or harmful.”  “UC Merced remains committed to doing everything in its power to enable our undocumented students to pursue their education,” Leland said. “Like so many of our dedicated students, they are remarkable individuals with remarkable stories.”  Devon Hunter, the 20-year-old UC Merced student who held up the sign with the number to ICE, said he can understand how the sign might offend some, but said it was “supposed to be controversial and draw them in.”  Hunter, an economics student, said the University of California system wants to put “boundaries” on free speech.  “It’s all well and good until people take offense to it,” he told the Sun-Star in a phone interview. “We want to make sure they (signs) hit close to home to show people this is the United States and we have the First Amendment here to protect statements that are unpopular.”  Harrison Duran, president of the College Republican Club, said the intention was to “start a dialogue on campus.” He said members of the club don’t believe people should reside in the country illegally but have different views on policy.  “I understand the material can be upsetting to certain people and they can disagree with it,” the 21-year-old ecology and evolutionary biology student said.  Some students organized a counter-protest in front of their tables Tuesday.  They chanted "education not deportation" and "say it loud say it clear immigrants are welcome here," said Christina Acosta, a 31-year-old Ph.D. student who participated in the protest. Acosta said it’s important for the hundreds of undocumented UC Merced students to know they have support on campus.  “I think it’s just really important to let them know that this won’t stand. We won’t allow this kind of hatred to stand,” Acosta said.  Acosta, who also is a teacher's assistant, said she’s seen how the current discussion around immigration policy can be a stressful distraction that interferes with education.  “How many students walk by there and were traumatized by that?” Acosta questioned.  The Republican club’s advisor, Phillip Cunningham, said he personally wouldn’t have drawn the signs carried by some club members, but said he “supports their right to do it and get the conversation going which is what we wanted.”  “I can see how some people could find offensive or provocative,” Cunningham added. “I don’t necessarily agree that it’s threatening.”
250	adjudicated	2	Berkeley College Republicans, or BCR, held a candlelight vigil for Kate Steinle on Thursday evening, garnering criticism from local activists.  The vigil took place on the steps of Sproul Hall, where participants laid down flowers and candles in memory of Steinle, who was fatally shot in San Francisco in 2015. Jose Ines Garcia Zarate, who was initially charged in connection with Steinle’s death, was acquitted of murder and manslaughter charges Nov. 30. BCR held the vigil in light of Garcia Zarate’s acquittal, according to BCR external vice president Naweed Tahmas.  “We were appalled and disappointed by the decision not to charge (Garcia Zarate) with murder or, at the very least, manslaughter,” Tahmas said. “We don’t want her name or memory to be forgotten.”  BCR arranged candles to spell out Steinle’s name and, according to Tahmas, organized a signed poster to send to the district attorney in the hopes that their condolences would reach the Steinle family. BCR organized the event without the family’s coordination, although Tahmas said BCR had tried to reach out to them.  About 20 people attended the vigil, which was met with both support and opposition from local activists. Raphael Kadaris, a member of Refuse Fascism, condemned BCR for politicizing Steinle’s death. He and two other members of the group held banners to demonstrate their support of immigration.  “These people don’t care about Kate Steinle,” Kadaris said. “They are using the tragic death of Kate Steinle to incite hatred and bigotry against immigrants.”  A crowd formed around Kadaris, whose banners accused Republicans of justifying “ethnic cleansing” and called for an end to the Donald Trump-Mike Pence administration. Kadaris also initiated an argument with the Refuse Fascism protesters about fascism. Bay Area resident Jeanne Solnordal, who said she attended the vigil because of the “unfair” verdict, engaged with Kadaris in debate and said she found his presence “disrespectful.”  BCR member Chase Aplin said he believed that the jury’s decision was an “injustice.” Aplin said he also believed “political vindictiveness” against Trump motivated the jury’s decision to release Garcia Zarate.  “Certain deaths should be politicized,” Aplin said. “This is a death that if the policies I support were in play, she would still be alive.”  Cal Berkeley Democrats president Caiden Nason briefly attended the event and expressed disapproval at the organization of the vigil, which he claimed “politicized” Steinle’s death against her family’s will.  Nason alleged that BCR was not hosting the event out of “the kindness of their heart,” but in order to provoke a response.  “I think there are good questions about whether the verdict was right, but this is not an immigration case and shouldn’t be turned into one,” said Nason. “A protest is only going to further politicize this awful thing that happened to this family.”
251	adjudicated	3	"Luis Tapia, a junior at Horlick High School, speaks Tuesday at a rally before getting on a bus to travel to Washington, D.C., to protest for immigration reform. Tapia is one of about 60 Wisconsin residents planning to participate in the protest on Wednesday in Washington. Racine Mayor Cory Mason, right, speaks Tuesday to Horlick High School students at a rally outside the school before some of the students were to travel to Washington, D.C., to protest for immigration reform on Wednesday. RACINE — While most students exited Horlick High School to head home Tuesday afternoon, a few dozen stayed back to voice their support for immigration reform.  “Today I’m leaving Horlick High School because I’m going to go even higher — by going to Washington, D.C. I’ll continue to fight for myself, for my friends and for my family,” said Luis Tapia, a junior at Horlick. “We’re all going to Washington, D.C., as one.”  The students were rallying outside of Horlick, 2119 Rapids Drive, to bring attention to the issue of immigration.  Tapia, along with about 60 other people from Wisconsin, was to travel by bus Tuesday night to Washington to advocate for immigration reform and a “clean” DREAM Act, which would provide a path to citizenship to undocumented individuals who were brought to the United States as children (often referred to as “Dreamers”) and protection for their families.  The students going on the trip planned the rally in front of the school Tuesday as a send-off before the long bus ride to the East Coast, where they were to join other protesters from across the country on Wednesday in the nation’s capital to lobby for passage of the DREAM Act. Racine Mayor Cory Mason attended the rally on Tuesday and thanked the students for their activism and told them “know you’re always welcome here.”Ricardo Torres covers federal, state and Racine County politics along with the Village of Mount Pleasant. He bleeds Wisconsin sports teams.  “I hope this is what my kids want to do when they’re in high school,” Mason said. “This is about achieving the American dream. All you want to do is be here, succeed in school and achieve the American dream like every other generation of immigrants that came before.”  Horlick teacher Aaron Eick also was present and voiced his support for the action the students were taking.  “It’s very important that these kids are going to D.C. to represent us and, as a teacher, I’m very proud to say that we stand with these children,” Eick said. ‘I want to show others how to be a leader’  Valeria Ruiz, organizer with Youth Empowered in the Struggle and a Horlick alum, has been to the nation’s capital “more than six times” to participate in protests for immigration reform.  When Ruiz was in high school she was active in the same cause.  “Now five, 10 years later, I’m an organizer and I’m again taking a delegation of not only (House Speaker) Paul Ryan constituents but also Dreamers and undocumented folks and their parents to D.C. to advocate for the same thing we were advocating for a long time ago,” Ruiz said.  Although the students will be missing a few days of school, Ruiz said “they’re not going on vacation.”  “They’re going for a reason … they’ll get the experience of people power, of community organization,” Ruiz said. “I’ve already gone through this leadership (experience) and I want to show others how to be a leader and develop them into strong leaders.” "
252	adjudicated	3	HASTINGS, Neb. — People in Hastings welcomed immigrants into their community by hosting a rally on Sunday. People at the event said they want to be involved in the conversation on immigration reform and send the message that all cultures are welcome there.  "It just brings more enrichment to the community when we have diverse communities and when everyone feels welcomed and a part of the community," Yolanda Chavez-Nuncio, one of the marchers, said.  Margaret Marsh helped organize the event and said immigration directly affects the city because people in Hastings have been deported or detained.  "At least ten people from Hastings have been deported in the last year, and there are 20 being detained and so we're concerned about that. You don't hear about that -you don't read about that, but it's really impacting the Latino population greatly,” Marsh said. "We want people to know that it's happening here, it doesn't just happen in metropolitan areas it's happens in small towns as well. People in Hastings have already been deported or detained,” she said.  The rally encouraged people to tell their stories of how family members immigrated here.  "We have more in common with our neighbors than we do what separates us and I think people lose sight of that. We're more alike we want the same things. We want safe communities we want healthy communities we want prosperity. You know, we all want the same thing,” Marsh said.  This year, they don't want their efforts falling on deaf ears so they added a voter registration as part of the event.  Senator Deb Fischer told NTV that America is welcoming, but we need to be cautious of who comes in.  "The United States is the most compassionate country in the world when it comes to immigration. We are the most welcoming nation. We accept over one million legal immigrants every single year so I believe that we have to come up with a policy that is going to continue to be welcoming, but also to make sure that our country is going to be safe," Fischer said.  Nuncio-Chavez said there's plenty of work and opportunity in Hastings and they want immigrants to feel welcomed.
253	adjudicated	2	 1 of 12  [Image: 070118-news-immigrationrally-004.jpg]  Families proudly hold signs at an immigration rally outside of the Colorado Springs City Hall building in Colorado Springs on Saturday, June 30, 2018. (Photo by The Gazette, Kelsey Brunner)      Kelsey Brunner  [Image: 070118-news-immigrationrally-002.jpg]  Marea Bowser listens to the speakers and holds a handmade sign high at an immigration rally outside of the Colorado Springs City Hall building in Colorado Springs on Saturday, June 30, 2018. (Photo by The Gazette, Kelsey Brunner)      Kelsey Brunner  [Image: 070118-news-immigrationrally-006.jpg]  David M. Justice, left, and his new friend Ilsegret Brebach talk during an immigration rally outside of the Colorado Springs City Hall building in Colorado Springs on Saturday, June 30, 2018. (Photo by The Gazette, Kelsey Brunner)      Kelsey Brunner  [Image: 070118-news-immigrationrally-007.jpg]  Rashedah Mohammed emphatically recites a poem at an immigration rally outside of the Colorado Springs City Hall building in Colorado Springs on Saturday, June 30, 2018. (Photo by The Gazette, Kelsey Brunner)      Kelsey Brunner  [Image: 070118-news-immigrationrally-009.jpg]  Protesters gather at an immigration rally outside of the Colorado Springs City Hall building in Colorado Springs on Saturday, June 30, 2018. (Photo by The Gazette, Kelsey Brunner)      Kelsey Brunner  [Image: 070118-news-immigrationrally-010.jpg]  Protesters gather at an immigration rally outside of the Colorado Springs City Hall building in Colorado Springs on Saturday, June 30, 2018. (Photo by The Gazette, Kelsey Brunner)      Kelsey Brunner  [Image: 070118-news-immigrationrally-011.jpg]  Protesters gather at an immigration rally outside of the Colorado Springs City Hall building in Colorado Springs on Saturday, June 30, 2018. (Photo by The Gazette, Kelsey Brunner)      Kelsey Brunner  [Image: 070118-news-immigrationrally-012.jpg]  Protesters gather at an immigration rally outside of the Colorado Springs City Hall building in Colorado Springs on Saturday, June 30, 2018. (Photo by The Gazette, Kelsey Brunner)      Kelsey Brunner  [Image: 070118-news-immigrationrally-013.jpg]  Protesters gather at an immigration rally outside of the Colorado Springs City Hall building in Colorado Springs on Saturday, June 30, 2018. (Photo by The Gazette, Kelsey Brunner)      Kelsey Brunner  [Image: 070118-news-immigrationrally-014.jpg]  Protesters hold signs and flags high despite the rain at an immigration rally outside of the Colorado Springs City Hall building in Colorado Springs on Saturday, June 30, 2018. (Photo by The Gazette, Kelsey Brunner)      Kelsey Brunner  [Image: 070118-news-immigrationrally-015.jpg]  Protesters gather at an immigration rally outside of the Colorado Springs City Hall building in Colorado Springs on Saturday, June 30, 2018. (Photo by The Gazette, Kelsey Brunner)      Kelsey Brunner  [Image: 070118-news-immigrationrally-016.jpg]  Loved ones hold each other while gathered at an immigration rally outside of the Colorado Springs City Hall building in Colorado Springs on Saturday, June 30, 2018. (Photo by The Gazette, Kelsey Brunner) Around 400 people gathered Saturday outside City Hall in Colorado Springs, chanting, “It is our duty to fight for freedom” and “We must love and support one another,” in the second protest in the past two weekends over the Trump administration’s zero-tolerance immigration policy at the U.S.-Mexico border.  [Image: 070118-news-immigrationrally-001.jpg]  People take cover under umbrellas and handmade signs as the rain begins to drip on the immigration rally outside of the Colorado Springs City Hall building in Colorado Springs on Saturday, June 30, 2018. (Photo by The Gazette, Kelsey Brunner) Kelsey Brunner  “These families are never going to forget these moments,” said Rasheda Mohammed, whose father was deported when she was 13.  Saturday’s rally was among more than 700 around the country protesting the separation of children from their parents when they are arrested for crossing the border illegally. Hundreds of thousands marched in demonstrations, including at border crossings in Texas and at President Donald Trump’s golf resort in New Jersey, where he was spending the weekend with his family.  [Image: 070118-news-immigrationrally-003.jpg]  Lucy Burfeind, 8, chants along with the other protesters at an immigration rally outside of the Colorado Springs City Hall building in Colorado Springs on Saturday, June 30, 2018. (Photo by The Gazette, Kelsey Brunner) Kelsey Brunner  The outcry against the “zero tolerance” immigration policy announced by Attorney General Jeff Sessions in April has been going on for months, forcing the administration to halt separating children from their parents when the adults are arrested for crossing the border illegally. President Trump signed an executive order ending family separations June 20, but more than 2,000 children have yet to be reunited with their families and remain in detention centers or with foster homes, according to the Department of Homeland Security.  “It’s just really frustrating to sit at home and watch the news,” said Kate Crandall, who attended Saturday’s rally with her husband, Mike. “There’s all these horrible things happening, and I think the biggest thing is you want to say you got out and did something.”  Protesters carried signs with slogans reading “Where are the babies?” in English and Spanish.  A handful wore Army green jackets and shirts with, “I really do care, don’t u?” painted in white across their backs, a reference to first lady Melania Trump having worn a similar jacket inscribed with “I really don’t care, do u?” when she visited detained immigrant children in Texas.  As cars drove along Nevada Avenue, drivers honked their horns, which attendee Sharon Friedman said she was happy to hear.  [Image: 070118-news-immigrationrally-005.jpg]  Protesters gather at an immigration rally outside of the Colorado Springs City Hall building in Colorado Springs on Saturday, June 30, 2018. (Photo by The Gazette, Kelsey Brunner) Kelsey Brunner  “I’m happy that people are here, I’m happy that people are resisting,” Friedman said. “It’s very uplifting. It gives me hope, and I need hope going forward.”   
254	adjudicated	2	‘Infeliz Navidad’: DACA Recipients Sing Protest Carols at Texas Governor’s Mansion  Texas’ approximately 110,000 DACA holders have no idea if or when Congress will assure them a future in the U.S.  by Gus Bova  December 5, 2017, 9:25 PM, CST  Around two dozen immigrant rights activists sang Christmas carols outside the Texas governor’s mansion Tuesday evening as a reminder that nearly 700,000 young immigrants nationwide face an “infeliz navidad” if Congress doesn’t find a solution for DACA. President Trump is set to terminate the Obama-era program, which allows immigrants who arrived in the U.S. as children to live and work in the country, on March 5.  “As you see behind me, [Governor Greg Abbott] is ready for Christmas and the holidays,” said Luis Ortega, volunteer director of Immigrants United, as he gestured toward the wreath-draped mansion. “A time that should bring joy and comfort, but for many of us it will be a cheerless holiday.”      "Infeliz Navidad": Carolers gather at Texas governor's mansion as reminder that "Dreamers" may face holidays full of uncertainty.      Posted by The Texas Observer on Tuesday, December 5, 2017  Ortega, 23, is one of around 110,000 current DACA holders in Texas hoping for Congress to clear up their futures. Some have already lost their benefits either by failing to meet an October deadline or through official mishandling, and if lawmakers don’t act by March 5, DACA recipients will see their work permits start expiring at a rate of nearly 1,000 a day nationally.  Ortega, who’s lived in Texas since he was 5, works full-time in retail and studies in Austin’s community college system, on top of directing his nonprofit. He says he applied to renew his DACA status before the Trump-mandated deadline in October, but he has yet to receive his new work permit, which expires December 29. He said he fears the document won’t arrive in time and he’ll lose his job. “That will be the last day I can work legally and help support my family,” he said.  Yuridia Loera, a 22-year-old activist with the immigrant rights group United We Dream, was also present Tuesday and said she has yet to receive a permit that she applied for in April. Her authorization is now expired. Luis Ortega.  Gus Bova  Ortega and Loera were joined in downtown Austin Tuesday evening by a small crowd that shivered against a cold front as they sang their modified holiday songs of protest. In their rendition, the classic “El burrito de Belén” changed to a song of popular resistance: “con mi protesta y mi pueblo, voy camino a mis sueños.”  The future of the “Dreamers” is currently shrouded in congressional bickering. Congress members have introduced various measures that could offer a path to citizenship for DACA recipients and other immigrants who arrived in the U.S. as children. The preferred vehicle for many immigrant advocates is the Dream Act of 2017, which offers the least onerous path to status.  Meanwhile, Congress faces a December 8 deadline for passing a spending bill to avoid a government shutdown, and Senate Republicans will need at least eight Democratic votes to do so. Some prominent Democrats, such as California’s Kamala Harris and Vermont’s Bernie Sanders, have pledged not to vote for any spending bill that lacks a DACA fix.  On Monday, U.S. Senator John Cornyn, R-Texas, blasted them on the Senate floor. “That’s simply a hysterical and cynical ploy – putting their party and their agenda ahead of the nation,” he said. The Senate Majority Whip argued that lawmakers could easily assemble a DACA solution in January or February, and there was no need to risk a shutdown.  But advocates are wary of letting a decision slip into the new year. “If Republicans somehow manage to kick the can to next spring, what’s predictable is that they’ll load up an inadequate DACA fix with enough poison pills to ensure opposition,” said the pro-immigration reform group America’s Voice in a statement Monday.  Cornyn is also co-sponsor on a bill introduced Tuesday that would pair border security measures with a three-year extension of DACA that Frank Sharry, executive director of America’s Voice Education Fund, has called “a witch’s brew of nativist poison pills topped by a stingy, temporary three-year reprieve.”  [Image: Will Hurd — trump] U.S. Representative Will Hurd, R-Texas  Office of Will Hurd  On Tuesday morning, 34 House Republicans sent a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan supporting a DACA fix before the year’s end. Two Texans signed the letter: retiring Congressman Joe Barton, and Will Hurd, whose District 23 spans one-third of the U.S.-Mexico border and is one of the state’s most competitive. Though the Republicans fell short of promising to withhold votes on the upcoming spending bill, House GOP leadership currently favors a version that would extend only through December 22, which could create a second chance to include the immigration legislation.  Multiple lawsuits have been filed against the Trump administration for its handling of the DACA program. The administration has fought to halt discovery in those cases to avoid releasing documents relevant to its deliberations on the policy. The Justice Department most recently filed with the U.S. Supreme Court to stymy a suit filed by six “Dreamers,” which accuses the president of “unconstitutional bias against Mexicans and Latinos.”  United We Dream, which has held frequent actions targeting members of Congress, held a die-in Tuesday afternoon outside the office of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. Julieta Garibay, a Texas organizer with the group, said Tuesday they have actions planned targeting Texas Congress members as well, including Hurd and Representative John Culberson, a Houston Republican. SUPPORT INDEPENDENT JOURNALISM  Do you think free access to journalism like this is important? The Texas Observer is known for its fiercely independent, uncompromising work— which we are pleased to provide to the public at no charge in this space. We rely on the generosity of our readers who believe that this work is important. You can chip in for as little as 99 cents a month. If you support this mission, we need your help. Learn more  Gus Bova is a senior staff writer and assistant editor at the Texas Observer. He writes about labor, politics, the border, homelessness, and occasionally other topics. Before coming to the Observer, he worked at a shelter for recently arrived immigrants and asylum-seekers. He studied Latin American Studies at the University of Kansas. 
255	adjudicated	4	Immigrant rights advocates gathered today outside of the Buffalo Federal Detention Facility at Batavia in support of undocumented women facing deportation. More than 50 people, including many from New York City — and one sporting an oversize Donald Trump head, orange skin and all, holding a "Deport Me" sign — stood close together to listen to women speakers tell their own stories and call for solidarity with local immigrants.  The rally was coordinated with an Upstate woman's appearance in front of Immigration and Customs Enforcement at Batavia scheduled for today. Arely, a Syracuse woman originally from Guatemala, and her husband were driving to Ithaca in 2013 when they were pulled over, and not having New York drivers' licenses, they were detained and turned over to Border Patrol.  Since then she had been having regular phone check-ins with ICE, but immigration authorities called for her to appear in person today in Batavia.  Rally organizers wanted to highlight women being detained in Batavia, which they said is a new development. "They're detaining women here in Batavia, and they didn't used to," said Fabiola Ortiz Valdez of the New York Immigration Coalition. "That means the deportation machine is growing."  Among the speakers was Dolores Bustamante, an Upstate apple farm worker who was pulled over in 2014 and now faces deportation. "Unfortunately, there are so many of us women who are going through this process," she said, through a translator. "We are being separated from our families."  In the crowd were organizers from the Worker Justice Center, Workers' Center of Central New York, the Hispanic Latina Women's League, ICE Free NYC, Washington State's Familias Unidas Por La Justicia, the Geneseo Student Coalition for Migrant Workers, and Black Lives Matter Syracuse.  "Black people are being criminalized and targeted. Also, we have black people who are immigrants," said Rahzie Seals, a BLM Syracuse organizer whose cousin was killed by police. "Our struggle for basic human rights is connected." Seals also shared her story about being recently assaulted and beaten by a group of men while she and her friend were shopping. While she was in the hospital, friends stayed with her and tended to her inured friend as well. "That was solidarity," she said.  A statement was read from a woman who was detained and separated from her husband after they were pulled off of a Greyhound bus. And another woman spoke about her husband being picked up by ICE from their home and detaining him in Batavia for 11 months. The man has epilepsy, and had multiple seizures a day. "He could have died in there," she said.  "Isn't it disgusting," said Nikeeta Slade, an organizer with the Workers' Center, "that this is a country that is obsessed with family values, but then it has the cruelty and the audacity to rip families apart?" 
256	adjudicated	1	"This is no fish story  Justin Hamlin got lucky on Valentine’s Day this year but his luck didn’t last long. He caught a record-breaking fish in Keystone Lake near Tulsa, Okla. that Friday: a paddlefish weighing in at about 157 pounds. But, alas, he could not claim the record, reports the Association of Mature American Citizens, or AMAC.  The Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation made him release it. It seems that the American paddlefish is classified as a vulnerable species and so the state’s fishing regulations require paddlefish caught on Mondays and Fridays must be released. Though he can’t claim the record, he does have the satisfaction of knowing his catch outweighed paddlefish that won the state’s record of 132 pounds and the world record of 144 pounds.  ###  A virtuoso performance  How do you pass the time when you are lying on an operating table undergoing brain surgery?  Dagmar Turner played her violin. It happened at King’s College Hospital in London during an operation to remove a brain tumor, according to AMAC. Turner plays with the Isle of Wight Symphony Orchestra. Dr. Keyoumars Ashkan, who performed the surgery, explained that playing the instrument during the operation helped ensure that her musical abilities were not impaired.  Ashkan said that her tumor was too close to the parts of the brain that control motor skills.  “We perform around 400 resections (tumor removals) each year, which often involves rousing patients to carry out language tests, but this was the first time I’ve had a patient play an instrument,” Ashkan said.  ###   Pigeons power  PUTIN ordered a fly-by over downtown Las Vegas recently, but it wasn’t the Russian president. Rather, it was a group calling itself Pigeons United To Interfere Now, which outfitted each of the pigeons in the flock with red Make America Great Again hats.  PUTIN says it organized the demonstration in support of President Trump. One of the birds even wore a wig mimicking the president’s hairstyle."
257	adjudicated	3	[Image: Protesters demonstrated against Trump’s immigration policies outside of Sen. Schumer’s office in Midtown.] Protesters demonstrated against Trump’s immigration policies outside of Sen. Schumer’s office in Midtown. (Especial/ZUMAPRESS.com)  Two women and a man were arrested Tuesday in Midtown during a protest of President Trump's immigration policies.  The trio was charged with disorderly conduct at about 11:30 a.m. as they protested outside Sen. Chuck Schumer's Midtown office on Third Ave., near 49th St., police said. Advertisement  [Image: It’s unclear why the protesters gathered outside of Schumer’s office — given he is a Democratic senator who supports DACA.] It’s unclear why the protesters gathered outside of Schumer’s office — given he is a Democratic senator who supports DACA. (SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images)  They were among about 30 people protesting Trump's decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which allowed people who entered the U.S. illegally as children to remain here.  Other protests took place Tuesday in Oregon, Calif., South Carolina and Arizona, including outside Sen. John McCain's office, where seven people were arrested. Advertisement Related Gallery Protesters gather around the world to support DACA  Schumer, a Democrat who supports DACA, was in Washington where the Senate is in legislative session, but the protesters met with his representatives.  "This is a top priority and we are fighting hard to make sure it is part of any deal on government funding," said Angelo Roefaro, a spokesman for Schumer.
258	adjudicated	3	Colorado Mountain College students Guadalupe Morales, Fernando Ramos and Raquel Vasquez chat before the start of the DACA Rally held on Grand Avenue in fron of Glenwood Springs High School on Dec. 4, 2017. Chelsea Self / Post Independent |  Young, undocumented immigrants and their supporters rallied outside of Glenwood Springs High School Tuesday as part of a statewide week of demonstrations pushing Congress to pass the Dream Act.  It’s now halfway through the six-month enforcement delay that President Donald Trump gave Congress when in September he rescinded Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. DACA is an Obama-era protection of young immigrants brought illegally into the U.S. as children. That six months is the time frame that Congress has to pass legislation to protect those now-vulnerable DACA recipients, and immigration advocates hope the Dream Act of 2017 will be the solution.  Advocates at these rallies are calling on Congress to pass a “clean Dream Act” – meaning clean of other attached legislative agendas, such as the president’s border wall.  Dreamers do not deserve to be used as a bargaining chip, said Junior Ortega, a Garfield County employee and DACA recipient who’s been active as a local immigrant advocate.  “No more money for more border security, no more money for more immigration enforcement, and no more money for a stupid wall,” Alan Muñoz shouted at the rally.  Advocates in Glenwood Springs specifically aimed their message at Rep. Scott Tipton, who represents Colorado’s 3rd Congressional District. Tipton is also scheduled to have a staff member at the Garfield County administration building today, from 2 to 4 p.m.  “We are calling on Congressman Scott Tipton to show moral fortitude, leadership and courage to stand with us for the youth and future of the Roaring Fork Valley’s economic, social and cultural communities,” said Ortega.  At the Glenwood Rally, several Dreamers told the crowd their stories of being raised in the U.S., where their families are rooted and set on a career path that’s now being yanked out from under them. One young woman said her dream has always been to be a nurse, “but my dream is currently on hold.” After studying for two years as a full-time student to meet the requirements of a nursing program, “I was told I couldn’t apply to the program because of my nationality.”  Ruth and David Sante, from Rifle, said they were attending the rally “to support our immigrants and our DACA students.” David, who runs a construction company, said he works with several people with children who are Dreamers. “One person I know, his son would like to go to college, but now he’s deciding not to because he’s afraid he’s going to get deported.”  When asked what he’d like Tipton to hear, David said, “Immigrants are what America is all about. We’ve all been immigrants. And if you want our economy to grow you need that population.”  The rallies across Colorado were a buildup toward a bigger event in Washington D.C. Twenty-three immigrant advocates from Colorado will today join a mass public demonstration at the Capitol to push Congress to pass the Dream Act. Organizations including Colorado Immigrant Rights Coalition also want to use the occasion to push for permanent residency for immigrants who were granted temporary protected status, such as those fleeing humanitarian crises.  “The event will be marked as the largest act of civil disobedience organized by immigrant groups in the history of the movement,” according to CIRC.  “The goal of these actions will be to disrupt business as usual at the Capitol, and say that this cannot wait and you cannot play games with people’s lives,” said CIRC’s Sophia Clark.  In early November, Ortega went to D.C. for a demonstration at the Capitol that drew hundreds of undocumented young people calling for Congress to pass the Dream Act.  “It was an intense event, an amazing experience I’ll never forget,” he said Tuesday. He joined hundreds of Dreamers who flooded into the atrium of the Hart Senate Office Building. “When you looked up there were floors and floors of people.”  During the demonstration the building erupted with chants: “What do we want? Dream Act!” From an upper floor in the atrium, demonstrators unfurled a large banner that read “CONGRESS WE DEMAND A CLEAN DREAM ACT NOW.”  Ortega had never participated in a mass demonstration like this. The atmosphere was exciting yet nerve wracking, he said, as he was uncertain what might happen. Dreamers usually try to stay under the radar and avoid causing problems, he said.  “It was emotional to see all those people, how many were there and willing to be arrested to demonstrate the urgency [of this bill]. I was speechless,” he said.  If signed into law, the Dream Act would protect young immigrants who were brought into the U.S. illegally when they were children. The act would provide a pathway to permanent residency and then citizenship to these young immigrants.  So far, Dream Act bills in the House of Representatives and Senate have been referred to committees, both controlled by Republicans. The question hanging in the air is whether this is a bipartisan enough issue to clear those committees.  A better shot in the House, said Clark, is getting a “discharge petition” passed. If it garners enough legislators’ signatures, such a petition would allow these bill to bypass the committee and go straight to a vote on the House floors.  “That would actually give it a chance, a much better chance,” Clark said. “And that’s also why we’re working hard to get Rep. Scott Tipton’s support, because we need Republican legislators to take leadership now, like Sen. Cory Gardner has. The more they can be leaders within their own party, the better chance we have.”
259	adjudicated	2	Advocates and church leaders across East Tennessee are offering support for immigrants and their families after a federal immigration raid that rounded up nearly 100 people last week.  Members of the Tennessee Immigrant and Refugee Rights Coalition, along with family and friends of those arrested, held a prayer vigil at 6 p.m. at Hillcrest Elementary School in Morristown to decry "the unjust separation of families" caused by Thursday's raid by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents on Southeastern Provision, a Grainger County slaughterhouse near Bean Station, Tenn. The raid has been called the region's largest such roundup in the past decade.   "My husband was detained," said Elisabeth Morales in a statement provided by the coalition. "I have been 20 years in Morristown. All my children were born here. My husband is sick. He has diabetes. We're worried about him that they're not treating him very well."  The statement doesn't list her husband's name or state his immigration status. Sister shows of support  The Tennessee Valley Unitarian Universalist Church in Knoxville held a "sister vigil" to the Morristown event at the same time — 6 p.m. Monday — at the sanctuary, 2931 Kingston Pike.  "It'll be a time of prayer and reflection, but also of action," said the Rev. Chris Buice, the church's pastor. "It's really kind of an open expression of being a good neighbor. The Bible instructs us to welcome the stranger in our midst, for by doing so we may be entertaining angels unawares.  "What we're seeing is a very painful reckoning because our elected leaders have kicked the can down the road and postponed action on immigration reform. Now we have mothers and fathers separated from their children and spouses separated from each other, and this was completely avoidable."  About 50 people gathered Monday morning outside the Knoxville ICE office on Prosperity Road for an hourlong vigil of prayers and songs, organized by Allies of Knoxville’s Immigrant Neighbors, another advocacy group.  “There were a lot of people in the Knoxville community understandably that were very upset and were interested in demonstrating our support and love and our community commitment," said organizer Meghan Conley.  Contrary to some claims, Grainger County schools haven't seen a jump in absences since the raid, Director of Schools Edwin Jarnagin said. Details on absences for neighboring Hamblen County weren't immediately available.  "Our initial reports of absences that may be related to this are probably less than 10 percent," Jarnagin said. "We've had counselors and other faculty members on hand for students who need them." Churches, nonprofits call for action  St. Patrick’s Catholic Church in Morristown was among the houses of faith and community organizations offering Hispanic families help after the raid. Knoxville’s St. James Episcopal Church announced after the raid an offering would be taken at its Sunday services to go to St. Patrick’s Hispanic Emergency Fund.  The nonprofit Hispanic Outreach Leadership Association of Lakeway, or HOLA Lakeway, in Morristown organized a GoFundMe page to help detainees’ families. In two days, 534 people raised $36,067 — more than $6,000 over HOLA Lakeway’s $30,000 goal.  Bishop Richard F. Stika, whose Knoxville-based diocese includes Grainger and Hamblen counties, said in a statement the arrests “placed an unnecessary stress on vulnerable families.” He said a lack of “common-sense solutions” by government leaders about immigration means “families suffer and people live in the shadows.”  Stika said he remains “inspired by the inspired by the tireless and faithful work of many volunteers who gathered to assist families at St. Patrick's to provide “services, food, water, personal supplies and love to all of the men, women and children who have been affected."  “Over the past few days, I have said that our response to this incident isn't about politics or personal agendas. It's about being the face, hands, feet and heart of Jesus — at all times and to all people,” the bishop said. Paperwork and profits  Agents held 86 people for checks on their immigration status after Thursday's raid, with 54 of those detained for further immigration proceedings, according to ICE. Another 10 face criminal charges in U.S. District Court for defying deportation orders. One worker faces state charges, with no further details given by ICE.  Agents seized paper and electronic records as part of a federal probe into whether the plant's owners, James and Pamela Brantley, hired undocumented immigrants to duck turning in payroll taxes, court records show. The Brantleys haven't been charged.  IRS Criminal Investigation Agent Nicholas R. Worsham wrote in a search warrant the Brantleys have been hiring undocumented immigrants since 2008 and hiding it from the IRS. The warrant claims the Brantleys used their daughter and other employees in the scheme, lied to the IRS about how much they paid themselves and American employees, filed false tax returns and exploited the plant's largely Hispanic and undocumented work force. Payroll and pollution  The Brantleys withdrew more than $25 million in cash from bank accounts since 2008 “for payroll,” according to court records. The couple withdrew $10.9 million in cash from 2013 to 2016 but reported paying workers only $2.5 million to the IRS, according to the search warrant.  The $8.4 million difference would translate to pocketing $2.5 million in unpaid taxes, Worsham wrote in the warrant.  Records show Southeastern has a history of sanitation and safety violations. In March, the plant's septic system failed, leading to the contamination of well water in the surrounding area by coliform and E. coli bacteria.  The Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation ordered the plant to shut down its underground wastewater system and haul its waste to an offsite treatment facility.  Residents were forced to use bottled water as authorities worked to help them install treatment or tie onto public water systems.
260	adjudicated	2	 This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.  DES MOINES, Iowa — Protesters gathered for a rally at the Capitol Wednesday Night, opposing the new law, saying it will break a trust that’s been created between the immigrant community and local law enforcement.  “Our local law enforcement, throughout the years, have created a relationship with the community in and of itself, especially even the hispanic community, a relationship of security and safety,” said Jessica Hernandez, with Dream Iowa Coalition. “And, now with them, local law enforcement working with higher federal officials, that relationship in itself is getting tainted with that collaboration and that working together.”  Hernandez was one of many protesters who rallied to show solidarity with the immigrant community, especially youth and young adults who are DACA recipients, but also on behalf of all immigrants who are afraid and have anxiety about the Governor signing SF 481 into law.  “It makes Iowa a really dangerous place for everyone, not just immigrants,” said Madeline Cano, a Community Organizer with Iowa Citizens for Community Improvement. “It forces our police to have to pick a side and to choose who they actually serve and we think immigration is the job of the federal government. It’s not the job of local government to decide that.”  Also on hand for the rally was State Senator Rob Hogg, a Democrat from Cedar Rapids  “The legislation that the Republican Legislature passed and Governor Reynolds signed does not reflect Iowa,” said Senator Hogg. “Iowa`s a very welcoming state and unfortunately that legislation was motivated by prejudice.”  But the Republicans who passed the legislation say Senate File 481 simply enforces the rule of law by ensuring cooperation between local, state, and federal authorities.  “The majority of immigrants that are here illegally just came here for a better life, and those are not who we`re talking about here,” said State Representative Steven Holt, a Republican from Denison. Holt made his comments last week, when the bill was debated and voted upon. “We`re talking about individuals who have committed additional crimes and traditional cooperation with law enforcement, because there are individuals here illegally, with violent criminal pasts that are disobeying other laws and placing citizens and their fellow immigrants at risk through dangerous disregard for the law.”  When asked for comment, the Governor’s Office provided the following statement:  “Governor Reynolds is strongly opposed to any city or community in Iowa becoming a sanctuary city for illegal immigrants who have chosen to commit a crime. This law will simply require our local jurisdictions to work with immigration officials when dealing with illegal immigrants who have knowingly broken the law.”
261	adjudicated	3	 This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.  KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Metro DACA students from the Kansas/Missouri Dream Alliance headed to Missouri’s capital Wednesday to lobby against a budget bill that would terminate in-state tuition rates for undocumented youth with DACA.  “It was horrible. I ended up going to the dean’s office. It got to the point where I really wanted to continue school. I didn’t want to drop out or go to another college, but I wasn’t able to afford it,” said Zaid Consuegra, a dreamer from Mexico City. He came to Kansas City in 1999.  He did not get in-state tuition for his schooling and knows the struggle of not being able to afford his education.  Now, Consuegra said he feels for undocumented youth who might have to pay extra in pursuit of higher education.  “I think it is discouraging for someone who is trying to better themselves and be in higher education,” Consuegra added. “I think it’s ridiculous to stop people, or students, from higher learning.” Zaid Consuegra  “I know lots of students that have had to drop out, or transfer to Kansas schools because of this,” said Jessica Piedra, a metro immigration attorney. “It’s really a huge barrier to these low-income families to achieve that higher education here in a state where they’ve grown up in.”  Piedra said the failure of Congress to pass the Dream Act has resulted in a patchwork of policies where Kansas students get in-state tuition. Missouri students do not.  “This is really an example of why we need the DREAM Act to pass on the federal law, so we can have one federal policy for the entire United States,” Piedra said.  Consuegra said this just creates inequalities and barriers for students.  “We could either keep being ignorant or manage and solve the issues right in front of us,” said Consuegra. “We are just people at the end of the day. We’re just trying to get by. We are not at fault. Obviously we didn’t ask for this, but now we’re dealing with it. We’re not asking for handouts. We’re doing everything we can to better ourselves and just live a happy life.”  There are about 3,500 youth with DACA who call Missouri home.
262	adjudicated	2	 This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.  Bridie Farrell, once an aspiring Olympic speed skate, is now an advocate for childhood sexual abuse victims. Farrell said she was abused when she was 15 by a much older, prominent Olympic skater. Farrell, now 36, is one of many survivors who cannot seek legal justice in New York because the alleged abuse happened too long ago.  Farrell joined other childhood sexual abuse victims, advocates and lawmakers outside the Lower Manhattan office of Zurich Insurance Thursday. The group was angry that Zurich and other insurance companies spent hundreds of thousands of dollars to lobby New York State Senate lawmakers to vote no on the Child Victims Act.  The legislation would allow New Yorkers like Bridie Farrell a longer window to come forward.  “No one has ever said I’m lying. I mean, he was known for these things,” Farrell said. “He would pick me up from school, and you know skip school, and go skate and then he would bring me to his house.”  A February 2018 poll from Quinnipiac University showed 90 percent of New Yorkers support changing the law so victims have more time to seek justice.  “We urge all the bill’s opponents, including the insurance companies, to stop the opposition and get behind this bill once and for all,” Safe Horizon’s Michael Polenberg said.  Insurance companies have tried to block this legislation to avoid increased civil payouts to victims, State Senator Brad Hoylman said.  “It was the almighty dollar and that’s what you see in Zurich,” Hoylman said. “That’s what you see in the insurance industry in cahoots with Republicans.”  Current law gives victims until they’re 23 to file lawsuits against their abusers. The Child Victims Act, which passed the Assembly, would change the statute of limitations so people up to age 28 can file for criminal cases. Victims would have up to 50 years after the alleged abuse to sue in civil cases. There would also be a one year window where older survivors could come forward to sue their alleged abusers.  According to Assemblywoman Linda Rosenthal, “I think the insurance companies, the Church, some Jewish religious organizations and everyone who does not believe in justice said, ‘Wait a minute, it’s going too fast!'”  The American Insurance Association responded by saying, “Sexual assault in all circumstances needs to be punished to the fullest extent of the law. From an insurance standpoint, we have concerns about any provision that retroactively removes the statute of limitations (SOL) for civil cases. Going forward, we could support an appropriate, prospective expansion of the SOL in such cases where the state has not previously extended it.”  Zurich North American stated in part, “Our position on the bill was not about hindering victims of child abuse or their rights to come forward but about retroactive changes to current law.”  Victim advocates hope there is enough momentum that the legislation could pass before summer recess.
263	adjudicated	1	Orange County Superior Court Judge Larry Yellin on Wednesday determined there is enough evidence for Marcus Anthony Eriz to face trial for murder and firearm charges and for Wynne Lee to face trial for allegedly being an accessory after the fact in connection to the killing last year of Aiden Leos.   [Image: Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer announces charges filed against suspects Marcus Anthony Eriz, left, and Wynne Lee, second from left, in the death of Aiden Leos, right, the 6-year-old boy who was shot and killed on his way to kindergarten in his mother’s car on the 55 Freeway in Orange on May 21, prior to their arraignment in Orange County Superior Court, on Tuesday, June 8, 2021, in Santa Ana. (Photo by Mark Rightmire, Orange County Register/SCNG) ]  [Image: An Orange County Superior Court jury deliberated for less than a day before finding Juan Palacios, now 63, guilty of second-degree murder] 
264	adjudicated	2	[Image: 1-1G8A0683.JPG]  Protesters chanted and marched from Yowell Meadow Park down Blue Ridge Avenue and onto Main Street Saturday following a two-hour rally against the implementation of a 287(g) program in Culpeper.      Photos by GREG VANNOSTRAND FOR THE STAR-EXPONENT  [Image: 1-1G8A0563.JPG]  Sophia Gregg, attorney for the Legal Aid Justice Center, speaks at the group’s rally in Culpeper on Saturday against the local sheriff’s plans to implement 287(g).      GREG VANNOSTRAND/FOR THE STAR-EXPONENT  [Image: 1-1G8A0576.JPG]  Children hold up rally signs at Yowell Meadow Park on Saturday protesting Sheriff Scott Jenkins’ plans to make a 287(g) program official in the county next week.      GREG VANNOSTRAND/FOR THE STAR-EXPONENT  [Image: 1-1G8A0584.JPG]  Culpeper residents Rich and Jacki Keiser, in the foreground, protest plans to implement 287(g) immigration enforcement in Culpeper’s jail, while Random Patillo raises his fist in solidarity with the speaker on stage.      GREG VANNOSTRAND/FOR THE STAR-EXPONENT  [Image: 1-1G8A0586.JPG]  Children hold up rally signs at Yowell Meadow Park on Saturday protesting Sheriff Scott Jenkins’ plans to make a 287(g) program official in the county next week.      GREG VANNOSTRAND/FOR THE STAR-EXPONENT  [Image: 1-1G8A0607.JPG]  Culpeper resident Kendra Hendren protests the local sheriff’s plans to implement a 287(g) program in the county jail.      GREG VANNOSTRAND/FOR THE STAR-EXPONENT  [Image: 1-1G8A0610.JPG]  Culpeper residents Jacki and Rich Keiser attended Saturday’s 287(g) rally sponsored by the Legal Aid Justice Center. The couple came to protest plans to implement the immigration enforcement program in Culpeper’s jail with a sign reading “We are better than this.”      GREG VANNOSTRAND FOR THE STAR-EXPONENT  [Image: 1-1G8A0627.JPG]  Culpeper County Sheriff Scott Jenkins, right, attended the pro-287(g) rally held by the Culpeper County Republican Committee on Saturday. The sheriff plans to sign the agreement between his office and the Department of Homeland Security at 1 p.m. on Monday.  [Image: 1-1G8A0638.JPG]  The local GOP committee on Saturday held a second rally at the home of chairman Jon Russell to show continued support for an immigration enforcement program between the federal government and the Culpeper County Sheriff’s Office.   By MARLA MCKENNA  On Saturday afternoon, Culpeper residents rallied both for and against the controversial 287(g) immigration enforcement program—so-named for the applicable section of the Immigration and Nationality Act—set to become official Monday in the county.  The Legal Aid Justice Center’s anti-287(g) gathering took place around a stage erected in Yowell Meadow Park, while at the home of local Republican committee chairman Jon Russell, residents in favor of the controversial agreement rallied for the second time in as many weeks to support the sheriff’s plans to train jail deputies to act in the stead of Immigration and Customs enforcement agents.  “We want the sheriff to withdraw his petition. There is opposition to this program. People are going to be afraid of the police and it’s going to cause more fear,” said Edgar Aranda, head of the Virginia Coalition of Latino Organizations.  Aranda’s group, along with the Legal Aid Justice Center, kicked off its two-hour protest with about 50 people waving signs reading “No human being is illegal,” “Race is not a crime,” and “Our children are afraid.” Kendra Hendren, a 23-year resident of Culpeper, said she’d rather the community invite an organization such as Welcoming America, which she believes would bolster the county’s economic and social outlook.  “We need to abandon this and fix what’s broken,” said Hendren. “Do you think they’re hunting down Canadians? This is a ‘brown people’ regulation.”  Sophia Gregg, a lawyer with the LAJC, said her group has been actively fighting the implementation in 287(g) for about six months and hoped that Culpeper County Sheriff Scott Jenkins would reconsider his plans to enter the agreement with Homeland Security on Monday.  “It’s a very divisive program,” Gregg said. “It erodes the trust between law enforcement and the community. People become afraid and ultimately it makes the community less safe.”  Gregg vowed that the fight wouldn’t end once the program became official next week. The LAJC, she said, would continue to monitor the sheriff’s actions and document any fiscal impact or allegations of racial profiling.  Culpeper Town Police and the Virginia State Police patrolled the park to keep the peace between the two rallies taking place within 100 yards of each other.  Lynn Bell, who moved to the county in 1976, said she found it difficult to park at the rally due to the law enforcement presence and felt “intimidated” trying to enter the area.  Bell said she came to show her support for the community and her desire that Jenkins would follow the lead of Fauquier County Sheriff Bob Mosier who explored, and ultimately abandoned, plans to implement a 287(g) program in April 2017.  “You have to show up for this kind of stuff,” Bell said.  No disturbances between the two groups took place during the hours set aside for the events.  Jenkins made an appearance at the Republican-hosted event where he also made a short speech.  The sheriff noted that under current operations there’s a small chance that undocumented inmates can pass through the county jail without their immigration status being investigated.  “The 287(g) creates a situation where there are 100 percent assurances that the person won’t slip through the cracks,” Jenkins said. “And it stands to reason that a person who isn’t here can’t commit crimes here.”  Jenkins again noted that the 287(g) program, as implemented in Culpeper, will not be a “street level” initiative, meaning only those people who are under arrest will be scrutinized by trained deputies with regards to their immigration status.  He also said that the 287(g) program as implemented in Prince William County’s jail had garnered no civil or legal actions during its 10 years of operation. He said citizens stopped protesting in that county when they saw its positive effects.  Finally, the sheriff said he wasn’t targeting Culpeper’s undocumented immigrants.  “No one talks about the people who are close to me and my family who are in that status,” Jenkins said. “We’re all God’s children and should be treated equally.”  Still, the sheriff went on, we are a “nation of laws.” Jenkins recalled several instances where residents without legal status committed crimes – stabbings, shootings and vehicular homicide.  Culpeper resident Janet McDonnell, who attended the GOP rally, agreed with the sheriff.  “Who wouldn’t support this?” she said. “It’s common sense. I’m not against immigration…I’m against illegal immigration.”  Russell said the Republican committee decided to hold a second pro-287(g) rally because the group wanted to send a strong message off support.  “We’re not going away, the issue isn’t going away and we don’t want the narrative to be that the community doesn’t support this initiative,” Russell said Saturday. “This is not about the sheriff. Once you’re here illegally, don’t exacerbate that by breaking our laws.”  In the park, Culpeper residents Rich and Jacki Keiser held signs to support their anti-287(g) views.  “My wife and I both support the Hispanic community,” Rich Keiser said. “I think most of them were afraid to come out, to tell you the truth. I think I’d be a little leery.”  About 25 people stayed in their cars, in the Blue Ridge Avenue parking lot, during the events although their motivation wasn’t clear. The Gardner Street lot, located between the two rallies, remained closed to cars and traffic during the events.  Following speeches, the 287(g) protesters chanted and marched down Blue Ridge Avenue and Main Street.  Keiser said, “My grandmother was Mexican and I don’t know if she was a legal immigrant or not. It never came up and it doesn’t matter.”  Mateo Gasparotto, a representative of the American Civil Liberties Union, said his organization believes the impending agreement will “further open the door to racism.”  “The Hispanic community will not tolerate the separation of more families, nor will we stand aside while being labeled criminals.  Mateo called 287(g) a “hateful” and “unnecessary” agreement.  Culpeper resident Susan Gugino attended the second pro-287(g) rally, because “there was no opposition to this the last time” and she wanted to show her support for immigration enforcement.  “If you break our laws, you should be subject to those laws,” said Gugino, who said she was “glad to see that our sheriff was here this time.”  The 19-page Memorandum of Agreement between the sheriff’s office and Homeland Security will be signed at 1 p.m. Tuesday during a special ceremony open only to ICE officials, law enforcement and the media.
265	adjudicated	2	 San Diegans protest GOP tax bills, ending of DACA By: Emily Thode Posted at 11:30 PM, Dec 04, 2017 and last updated 2017-12-05 02:36:16-05  SAN DIEGO (KGTV) -- Dozens of protested the Republican tax bills moving through Congress and the phasing out of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, program by White House.  “I came out to support protesting the tax scam. But, when I came out I saw people protesting in support of the dream act, so I wanted to support them as well.” Louise Metter said.  The two smaller groups of protesters teamed-up to become one larger protest.  They repeated chants, including, “The people united will never be divided,” “Hey, hey, ho, ho, the tax scam has got to go,” and, “We support the dreamers.”  One protester, named Ali, said he was brought to the United States illegally at the age of four.  “When DACA passed, I was able to come out of the shadows. I was able to go to school. I went to UCLA and graduated top of my class. I was able to volunteer at hospitals," Ali said. "They treated me like a criminal before."  The so-called "dreamers" want lawmakers to pass legislation to protect them from deportation as the White House phases DACA out.  The protesters upset over the tax legislation fear that the bill will benefit the rich at the expense of those who are middle and lower income. Copyright 2017 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Sign up for the Breaking News Newsletter and receive up to date information. now signed up to receive the Breaking News Newsletter.
266	adjudicated	2	A crowd of about 50 chanted outside the Neal Smith Federal Building in Des Moines Friday morning.  "Education, not deportation," they shouted. "No human is illegal."  The group was there to call on Congress to protect DREAMers and extend temporary protected status (TPS) to all immigrants in the U.S. without documentation.  "They need to know Iowans support undocumented immigrants," said Kenia Calderon, 24, of Des Moines, of U.S. Sens. Chuck Grassley and Joni Ernst and U.S. Rep. David Young.  Register editorial: Congress should stop dragging feet on immigration reform  Guest opinion: DACA had to go, and here's why  Current Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals protections will expire March 5, 2018 as a result of the Trump administration's decision to end the program. However, the administration allowed 154,000 DACA recipients to renew those protections.  According to the advocacy group Center for American Progress, 22,000 DACA  recipients missed the October 5 deadline to renew their protections.  Calderon said thousands of undocumented immigrants will lose DACA protections, emphasizing the urgency of her and the other protesters' pleas. "They need to act now," she said of Iowa's representatives in Congress.  "It's important because I'm a DACA recipient myself," Calderon said. "I know many other DACA recipients in our state who are living in fear. It's very close to home."  Calderon said Iowans can call their representatives to ask them to pass a Clean Dream Act, the term used for legislation that will give young undocumented immigrants a pathway to citizenship.
267	adjudicated	1	TRENTON, N.J. (WPVI) -- Skilled immigrants from India rallied at New Jersey's State House Annex in Trenton, on Sunday.  They want lawmakers to remove quotas on H-1-B work visas and green cards.  The group Green Card Reform says the practice has created a system with no real path to permanent residence or citizenship for immigrants with advanced degrees and specialized training.  They say the practices of the Trump administration have made a bad situation worse.  Supporters at the rally say annual limits on visas and green cards must be removed to create a fairer system for all immigrants.
268	adjudicated	3	May Day protesters march through downtown L.A. amid gloomy skies and drizzle  [Image: Maxine Victoria participates in the May Day march through Boyle Heights.] 1/15  Maxine Victoria participates in the May Day march through Boyle Heights.   (Marcus Yam / Los Angeles Times)  [Image: May Day marchers stream down Main Street in downtown Los Angeles to protest the Trump administration's immigration and labor policies.] 2/15  May Day marchers stream down Main Street in downtown Los Angeles to protest the Trump administration’s immigration and labor policies.   (Luis Sinco / Los Angeles Times)  [Image: Several dozen people take part in the May Day march through Boyle Heights.] 3/15  Several dozen people take part in the May Day march through Boyle Heights.   (Marcus Yam / Los Angeles Times)  [Image: Marching with a walker, Camerina Santi Baez raises her fist in solidarity with the May Day protesters as they marches through Boyle Heights.] 4/15  Marching with a walker, Camerina Santi Baez raises her fist in solidarity with the May Day protesters as they marches through Boyle Heights.   (Marcus Yam / Los Angeles Times)  [Image: May Day march and rally any Pershing Square in downtown Los Angels.] 5/15  May Day march and rally any Pershing Square in downtown Los Angels.   (Irfan Khan / Los Angeles Times)  [Image: May Day march and rally any Pershing Square in downtown Los Angels.] 6/15  May Day march and rally any Pershing Square in downtown Los Angels.   (Irfan Khan / Los Angeles Times)  [Image: May Day march and rally any Pershing Square in downtown Los Angels.] 7/15  May Day march and rally any Pershing Square in downtown Los Angels.   (Irfan Khan / Los Angeles Times)  [Image: The May Day march in downtown L.A.] 8/15  The May Day march in downtown L.A.   (Luis Sinco / Los Angeles Times)  [Image: Several dozen people take part in the May Day march through Boyle Heights.] 9/15  Several dozen people take part in the May Day march through Boyle Heights.   (Marcus Yam / Los Angeles Times)  [Image: May Day march and rally any Pershing Square in downtown Los Angels.] 10/15  May Day march and rally any Pershing Square in downtown Los Angels.   (Irfan Khan / Los Angeles Times)  [Image: Several dozen people take part in the May Day march through Boyle Heights.] 11/15  Several dozen people take part in the May Day march through Boyle Heights.   (Marcus Yam / Los Angeles Times)  [Image: Street vendors join a May Day march downtown.] 12/15  Street vendors join a May Day march downtown.   (Luis Sinco / Los Angeles Times)  [Image: Estela Rodriguez, mother of the Edwin Rodriguez, marches in the May Day march through Boyle Heights to honor the memory of her son who was shot by sheriff's deputies in East L.A.] 13/15  Estela Rodriguez, mother of the Edwin Rodriguez, marches in the May Day march through Boyle Heights to honor the memory of her son who was shot by sheriff’s deputies in East L.A.   (Marcus Yam / Los Angeles Times)  [Image: Downtown marchers carry a banner in support of street vendors.] 14/15  Downtown marchers carry a banner in support of street vendors.   (Luis Sinco / Los Angeles Times)  [Image: About 1,000 people participated in the May Day march downtown, including immigration advocates and labor union members.] 15/15  About 1,000 people participated in the May Day march downtown, including immigration advocates and labor union members. Lupe stood behind a flat-top cart in downtown Los Angeles on Tuesday, carefully turning sizzling bacon-wrapped hot dogs as scores of May Day demonstrators chanted nearby.  For the middle-aged woman and other street vendors on the economic margins, it’s a good day when large crowds turn out for a protest. May Day, which has drawn hundreds of thousands of demonstrators in the past, traditionally has been one of those good days.  But on Tuesday, Lupe, who did not give her last name because she is in the country without legal documentation, couldn’t help but be underwhelmed.  “There are not enough people today,” she said in Spanish as her hot dogs cooked alongside piles of onions and jalapeños. Advertisement  May Day has long been a key event in Los Angeles for a protest mash-up of political causes, notably worker and immigrant rights. Although this year’s marches — set beneath gloomy, drizzling skies— drew thousands of spirited participants, the crowds were notably smaller than in years past.  Some blamed the weather, with temperatures in the mid-50s. Some said it was bad timing, being in the middle of the workweek. Others wondered whether there was a bit of protest fatigue compared with last year, when the Trump presidency was new and people seemed to be more fired up.  For the vendors, bigger is always better.  “I want to work in areas where people are open to taking my money,” said Andy Abraham Arias Alvarado, 25, who has been a street vendor for a few months. In a way, he said, his business on Tuesday depended on people being willing to show up to express their grievances against Trump.  As chants filled the air near Hill Street, Alvarado shouted at a potential customer: “Hey, you want something to eat?”  “Yeah!” the man replied, sealing the deal. Alvarado grinned as he grabbed a hot dog and slapped it into a bun.  Legalizing street vending was among the hodgepodge of causes for which demonstrators marched. Others protested the shootings of unarmed black people by police and violence against transgender people. Many voiced their frustrations against President Trump’s immigration policies and called for an end to deportations.  “God Loves Dreamers #HereToStay,” read one man’s sign.  “Keep Families Together,” said another.  Labor union members in matching purple T-shirts blew noisemakers. People danced to Spanish-language music. A man wearing camouflage stood silently, holding a cardboard sign with an image of Trump wearing a Nazi uniform and Hitler mustache.  A small group of Trump supporters gathered on a street corner near the march in the afternoon. Some wore “Make America Great Again” hats. Others had American flags draped around their shoulders.  When the larger crowd marched past the Los Angeles Police Department headquarters on Spring Street, some yelled expletives about cops. Streaming past City Hall, some pounded on drums and chanted, “Si, se puede!” As they moved past a federal building, others waved the Mexican flag.  Gabby Bradley, who has attended May Day protests every year since 2005, had worried the gloomy weather might deter people.  “Last year, there were more people here,” said Bradley, 43, of Redondo Beach, as a cool breeze pushed back her hair while she stood in Pershing Square. “President Trump had just become president, and people were eager to express themselves.” ×  Scenes from the May Day march in Los Angeles.  Still, she said, the crowd was just as energetic.  “People are looking at different ways of organizing,” she said. “Some are telling people to register to vote. Others are phone banking. As long as we continue to have a presence, it’s a good thing.”  Nearby, Alejandra Mendez, a 19-year-old-street vendor and mother of two, grabbed a hot dog, placed it in a bun and sold it for $5 to a customer. She has been a street vendor for three years and came to the protests to sell food and show solidarity with the demonstrators.  “The price of rent, gas and food is going up,” she said. “If people are working, they should be able to get fair wages.”  Mendez, who came to L.A. from El Salvador in 2006, is in the process of getting her citizenship, she said. In the current political climate, she said, it’s more important than ever to support the legalization of immigrants.  Still, she said, she hoped turnout this year would have been better.  “It looks empty,” Mendez said as the march was getting started.  April Tejeda, 17, of West Covina said she had missed school the last two years to serve bacon-wrapped hot dogs to the big May Day crowds. She had hoped to sell out by early afternoon but still had half her supply left.  Brian Kaufman, 40, of Norwalk attended his first May Day march last year, when the crowd was larger and electric. It was just a few months after Trump’s inauguration, and the fear of his policies gave way to action in the street, he said.  “There was a feeling in the air that we had to stand up and say something,” Kaufman said.  He guessed the weather could have contributed to this year’s thinner crowd.  “But it’s just as loud and just as passionate,” he said.  Francisco Sanchez, a lawyer for the International Institute of Los Angeles, marched to support his clients who are here illegally and who fear deportation.  “My parents are from Mexico, and this march connects me to a long narrative,” said Sanchez, 35, of Boyle Heights. “I did not struggle like my parents did and those we represent. We are a nation of immigrants, and we should stay that way.”  Sanchez said the Trump administration and its policies add hardships to many working-class families trying to make a better life.  “Today is a reminder that we face a lot of threats,” he said. “And that we have allies.”  Alejandro Trujillo, who teaches high school government classes in El Sereno, said that his school gave students and staff the day off and that he would have come in rain or shine.  Trujillo, 30, said he has made it a point to teach students about worker rights and encourages them to use their voice to participate in civic affairs.  “There’s all kinds of rights such as healthcare and prison and immigration that need reform.… A lot of people want their voices heard.”  [Image: May Day march and rally began at Pershing Square in downtown Los Angeles.] (Irfan Khan / Los Angeles Times ) 
269	adjudicated	2	BOSTON (CBS) — A rally in Mattapan on Sunday demonstrated support for the local Haitian community as they wait for the Trump administration to decide if they will be deported.  The Temporary Protected Status (TPS) program that allows about 5,000 Haitian locally, and 58,000 nationwide to remain in the country. Overall, 320,000 people from ten different countries live in the United States because of TPS. READ MORE: Chris Rock Performs In Boston, Says He's Still 'Processing' Oscar Slap  A rally in Mattahan to support Haitian who might lose their temporary protected status (WBZ-TV)  President Donald Trump has until November 6 to extend the status to citizens of Nicaragua and Honduras. The deadline for Haitians is November. 23.  “I’m a student. I’m graduating in about six months. And getting deported would actually stop me from getting my Bachelor’s degree as an accountant so its a whole lot of things we would be deprived of after we’ve worked so hard to accomplish them,” said Marvens Leconte, who was at the rally.  The program was designed for immigrants from countries where natural disasters, war, or other factors make returning unsafe. READ MORE: Jimmy Butler Scores 24 To Help Heat Fend Off Celtics 106-98  Without the extension, those residents would have to leave by January.  The State Department says conditions in their homeland has improved enough for them to return.  Many at the rally said Haiti is still recovering from an earthquake, a hurricane, and a cholera epidemic.  “It won’t be safe for us to send 58,000 people back to Haiti right now with everything that is going on so we want to make our voices heard to say that those people deserve an extension because it will take time for Haiti to rebuild,” explained Geralde Gabeau, a rally organizer. MORE NEWS: Hurley: Tom Brady Clearly Won Power Struggle With Bruce Arians In Tampa Bay  The Haitian community is hoping for an 18-month delay
270	adjudicated	3	Thousands of people have turned out for the May Day march in San Jose, and it’s safe to say not everyone is a fan of President Donald Trump. (Photo by Greg Ramar)  At Silicon Valley’s march for International Workers Day, activists echoed a recurring theme: that the concerns of laborers overlap with those of all marginalized people. Organizers of San Jose’s May Day rally said Monday’s event also took on greater urgency because of President Donald Trump’s divisive rhetoric and attacks on civil rights.  “Trump showed us that it’s so easy to play people against each other,” said Huy Tran, a 34-year-old attorney for the Justice at Work Law Group. “But I think this movement is a way to show that we’re all part of a bigger struggle.”  Huy joined activists who marched from the Mexican Heritage Plaza in San Jose’s East Side to the SAP Center in downtown. Before the procession took off down Alum Rock Avenue, people cheered and clapped as speakers, poets and dancers took turns on the stage. The crowd responded periodically by chanting in unison.  “Get up, get down, there’s a migrant movement in our town,” they shouted.  “When our immigrants are under attack, what do we do? Stand up, fight back!”  “The people united will never be defeated.”  Aztec dancers elaborately adorned in feathers led the way from the East Side to the heart of the city. Trailing behind them, a parade of hundreds that swelled into a conflux of about 3,000 as the evening wore on. One group of marchers carried a huge puppet-like effigy of Trump—orange face distorted in a wrinkled grimace, garish yellow hair, abnormally long red tie.  Outside City Hall, activists took bats to “walls of alternative facts,” paper banners scrawled with falsehoods uttered by the Trump administration.  Throughout the day, protest signs, costumes and homemade T-shirts inspired countless selfies and snapshots. Twenty-seven-year-old Jayden Lee wore the transgender pride flag as a cape. A woman dressed as the Statue of Liberty raised a torch in her right hand and in her left, a sign declaring that “no human being is illegal.”  Students from the Roberto Cruz High School Leadership Academy held up bright and bold-lettered handmade signs.  “Something smells bad in the White House,” one read. “We should flush it.”  “Yes, he Klans!”  “We didn’t cross the border, the border crossed us!!”  “We are not immigrants, we are the original Americans.”  Roberto Cruz High Principal Yesenia Marquez said a lot of her students were too afraid to show up to class after the November election. But the school held a town hall and a know-your-rights training that empowered the students to act.  “Supporting our community means supporting immigrants,”Marquez said.  Elsewhere, a poster took a shot at a tone-deaf commercial that tried to co-opt political resistance movements to sell soda. “We need papers, not Pepsi,” it read.  “Justice is the opposite of just ICE,” quipped another sign, referencing Trump’s orders to ramp up U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) deportations.  Rabbi Melanie Aron’s sign bore a phrase oft-repeated at the march, “No human being is illegal.” She said she attended with two other rabbis on behalf of a Jewish social justice organization called Bend the Arc.  “For Jews, supporting immigrant rights comes partly from an identification with our history,” she said. “As a people, we have been refugees, we have been displaced and persecuted. But this is also about basic issues of justice.”  People should have the right to keep their families intact, she said, as well as the right to housing and health care, to a dignified job and the chance to build healthy, stable lives.  “For some of us, it was a struggle just to be here,” said Maria Guerrero, a 28-year-old barista at Intel. “Some people were scared to take the day off work.”  Major tech companies that allowed employees to take the day off to protest had to be pressured to extend that commitment to vendors as well. Dozens of lawyers across the country—including Ruth Silver-Taube, of the Silicon Valley Wage Theft Coalition—offered to represent pro bono workers whose employers retaliate against them for taking the day off to protest.  “Some people are still at risk,” Guerrero said. “Subcontractors are seen as less valuable.”  At least Guerrero had reason to celebrate, she said. Her union, Unite Here Local 19, ratified a contract two weeks ago that raised the wage floor to $15 an hour and included protections for immigrant workers. The labor deal marked the culmination of nearly 20 months of organizing.  Michael Sanchez, a Tesla worker on disability leave, said there’s a lot of fight left before he sees similar resolution at his workplace. Five years of 12-hour days installing underbody batteries at Tesla’s Fremont factory herniated two discs in his neck, leaving him in constant pain but with enough time to rally for stronger worker protections. But attempts to unionize 6,000 workers at the company’s East Bay facility have been met with intimidation and harassment, according the United Automobile Workers, which filed four complaints against Tesla with the National Labor Relations Board.  “We’re trying to build a union, but there’s that fear factor,” Sanchez said. “People are afraid to speak up.”  Jeff Powers, 73, said working conditions have deteriorated in the past two decades. When he became a passenger train conductor for Amtrak 20 years ago, he said, the crews were bigger and enjoyed more institutional support.  “The loss of worker protections have led to understaffing in the railroad industry,” he said. “Crews have shrunk, which follows the trends in other industries to require fewer people to do more work.”  Maricela Gutierrez, head of immigrant advocacy nonprofit SIREN, noted that South Bay labor activists have long championed immigration reform. But she said the coalition behind this year’s May Day demonstrations has never been more diverse, representing queer and transgender communities, religious and ethnic minorities, feminists, students, renters and every imaginable cross-section of the working class.  Supporting each one of those groups means resisting federal policies that exclude refugees and target undocumented immigrants, said Rev. Rowan Fairgrove, a member of the activist group Rise Up for Justice. It also means pushing for laws that protect tenants from eviction and make health care a basic right, said Tom Linebarger, a retired painter and affordable housing advocate.   “This community belongs to all of us,” Gutierrez added, “and we must band together in this political climate to push back against harmful policies from the federal administration that promote hate and fear.”  Nassim Nouri, a member of the Santa Clara County Green Party, said the same goes for environmental justice. She pointed to her sign, which named the party’s four core principles: social justice, ecology, democracy and peace.  “We can’t stand for one of these without the other,” she said. “We stand for democracy, so we can have peace, so we can protect our ecology and promote social justice.”      Thousands of people have turned out for the May Day march in San Jose, and it’s safe to say not everyone is a fan of President Donald Trump. (Photo by Greg Ramar)       Signs were out in force for the May Day march Monday. (Photo by Greg Ramar)       This little guy knew to wear the right colors on May Day. (Photo by Greg Ramar)        Activism got amplified at the May Day march in San Jose. (Photo by Greg Ramar)       San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo joined the May Day rally, which started at the Mexican Heritage Plaza. (Photo by Greg Ramar)       May Day featured more than a few colorful outfits. (Photo by Greg Ramar)        An estimated 10,000 people were expected to take part in the May Day march in San Jose. (Photo by Greg Ramar)       Thousands of people have turned out for the May Day march in San Jose, and it’s safe to say not everyone is a fan of President Donald Trump. (Photo by Greg Ramar)       Thousands of people are expected to join in the May Day march in San Jose. (Photo via PAWIS)        Attorney Huy Tran fights for immigrant rights and worker rights as a member of the Silicon Valley Wage Theft Coalition and attorney for Justice at Work Law Group. (Photo by Jennifer Wadsworth)       Maria Guerrero (left) and Hannah Anousheh, both of Unite Here Local 19, said subcontractors are the backbone of the tech industry. (Photo by Jennifer Wadsworth)       Jayden Lee donned a transgender pride flag as a superhero cape. (Photo by Jennifer Wadsworth)        “Black Worker Justice.” (Photo by Jennifer Wadsworth)       Michael Sanchez (right) marched in solidarity with Tesla’s factory workers, many of whom have been fighting to unionize. (Photo by Jennifer Wadsworth)       “This is about basic issues of justice,” said Rabbi Melanie Aron (left). (Photo by Jennifer Wadsworth)        Lady Liberty hoists her torch in a show of solidarity. (Photo by Jennifer Wadsworth)       “No human being is illegal.” (Photo by Jennifer Wadsworth)       Shaunn Cartwright, one of the march organizers, poses with Green Party member Nassim Nouri. “Green Party has a long history of struggling for workers rights,” Nouri said. “That means union access, the right to organize, the right to housing, the right to health care.” (Photo by Jennifer Wadsworth)        “We think the biggest problem is that people are divided,” said Jeff Powers, a member of the Socialist Workers Party. “The corporations, the political powers, they get over on people by turning us against one another.” (Photo by Jennifer Wadsworth)       Antonio Mora (left) and Joan Simon, both members of the Santa Clara County Single-Payer Health Care Coalition. “I’ve never been politically involved until this past election,” Mora said. “I live here legally, but it breaks my heart to see families broken up through deportation.” (Photo by Jennifer Wadsworth)       Ruben Lopez, 49, is a Black Beret. The group doesn’t promote political causes, but shows up up to keep the peace. “In the current political climate, we might encounter some threats to people’s safety,” he said. “We’re here to protect people who need protection.” (Photo by Jennifer Wadsworth)        Students from Roberto Cruz High’s Leadership Academy got creative with their protest signs. (Photo by Jennifer Wadsworth)       Some marchers preferred to remain anonymous. (Photo by Jennifer Wadsworth)       Rowan Fairgrove (left) calls herself a meliorist. “That means, basically, someone who believes that the world can be a better place.” (Photo by Jennifer Wadsworth)        “Drum Trump Out!” (Photo by Jennifer Wadsworth) 
271	adjudicated	2	HOLLAND, Mich. (WOOD) — Hope College students organized a march Tuesday in support of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals.  The march began at Pine Grove in the heart of Hope’s Holland campus and ended at city hall.  March organizers say their goals were to raise awareness about issues of immigration and show support for students and community members affected by the decision to end DACA.  “I think all of us are affected by this,” march organizer Alejandra Gomez Limon said. “Because whether it’s people in the Holland community, our families back home, the positive impact they make in our communities is going to be wiped away.”  DACA protects immigrants who came to the United States illegally as children.  The program won’t officially end until early 2018. In September, the Trump administration announced plans to end DACA, giving Congress six months to come up with a legislative fix before the government stops renewing permits for people already covered by the program.
272	adjudicated	3	"Grammy-winning R&B artist Miguel clasped his hands and listened.  Gwen Barrios, 17, of Santa Ana was in tears while she spoke about her father’s arrest by immigration officers as she was getting ready for school. She said her father is currently held at the Adelanto Detention Facility.  Mitzie Perez, an organizer with the Inland Empire-Immigrant Youth Collective, talked about her cousin’s deportation from the United States. He ended up in Guatemala, where his life was in danger. She said he wound up getting killed there.  Carlos Hidalgo, of North Hollywood, spoke of his time detained at the Adelanto Detention Facility. It’s run like a prison there, he said.      People hold signs against ‘immigrant prisons’ before the pop-up concert in front of the Adelanto Detention Facility in Adelanto, Ca. on Friday, October 20, 2017. The facility also serves as the largest ICE Processing center in California. (Sarah Alvarado for The Press-Enterprise)      Film crews set up for a pop-up concert in front of the Adelanto ICE Processing Center on Friday, October 20, 2017. Grammy-winning R&B artist Miguel, along with others were set to perform outside the Adelanto Detention Facility. (Sarah Alvarado for The Press-Enterprise)      Grammy-winning R&B artist, Miguel, participates in a round table discussion about immigration and detainment before performing at a concert at Adelanto Stadium in Adelanto, Ca. on Friday, October 20, 2017. (Sarah Alvarado for The Press-Enterprise)      Grammy-winning R&B artist, Miguel, participates in a round table discussion about immigration and detainment before performing at a concert at Adelanto Stadium in Adelanto, Ca. on Friday, October 20, 2017. (Sarah Alvarado for The Press-Enterprise)      Grammy-winning R&B artist, Miguel, speaks to a group outside the Adelanto Detention Facility on Friday, October 20, 2017. The facility serves as the largest ICE Processing center in the State of California. (Sarah Alvarado for The Press-Enterprise)      Grammy-winning R&B artist, Miguel, speaks to a group outside the Adelanto Detention Facility on Friday, October 20, 2017. The facility serves as the largest ICE Processing center in the State of California. (Sarah Alvarado for The Press-Enterprise)      People hold signs against ‘immigrant prisons’ before the pop-up concert in front of the Adelanto Detention Facility in Adelanto, Ca. on Friday, October 20, 2017. The facility also serves as the largest ICE Processing center in California. (Sarah Alvarado for The Press-Enterprise)  of Expand  On Friday, Oct. 20, Miguel was in Adelanto — home of California’s largest immigration detention center — to advocate for fair treatment of incarcerated immigrants at the Adelanto Detention Facility.  He was there to headline a show at Adelanto Stadium as part of the #SchoolsNotPrisons campaign — a free music and art tour that produces shows in communities “impacted by the overuse of punishment and incarceration.”  But before his performance, he met with a group immigrant rights organizers and youth impacted by deportation.  “There’s just a lot of injustice happening and I’m here to be educated and hopefully help shed some light to the issue,” Miguel said.  “We can find a solution. There’s no reason why people, who are contributing, to be ripped from their way of life,” he added.  The concert was organized by groups including The California Endowment, the Inland Empire-Immigration Youth Collective, the Inland Coalition for Immigrant Justice, the Community Initiatives for Visiting Immigrants in Confinement, known as CIVIC, and Revolve Impact.  Immigrant rights organizers in Adelanto on Friday announced a petition calling on media and government agencies to start referring to detention facilities as prisons.  “These detention centers are not what they look like,” Hidalgo said. “They are prisons and they are run like prisons.”  At 409,000 square feet, the Adelanto Detention Facility has an average daily population of 1,600. Immigrants stay anywhere from a couple of months to several years. More than 70 nationalities are represented among immigrants currently detained there. Most are Mexican nationals, followed by immigrants from Haiti and El Salvador.  Immigrants can end up in Adelanto after seeking asylum at the San Diego and Tijuana border or after they’re arrested by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, agents in enforcement operations across Southern California.  They are there solely for administrative purposes, pending decisions in their immigration cases or while awaiting deportation.  The private facility, operated and managed by The GEO Group, has drawn criticism over the number of detainees who have died at the center. There also have been complaints of sexual assaults and poor medical care.  ICE officials, and The GEO Group, however, have insisted they run a clean ship. Immigrant detainees get full physicals within 14 days of arrival and can access dental, mental, and other medical needs, officials have said.  Organizers of the event — which also featured Los Rakas, Ceci Bastida, and Buyepongo — said more than 1,000 signed up to attend the show.  Born to a black mother and a Mexican father, Miguel, whose last name is Pimentel, grew up more than 100 miles west of Adelanto in San Pedro. He simply goes by Miguel now.  In a recent Viceland documentary series, Miguel visits his father’s Mexican hometown of Zamora, Michoacán, for the first time.  “Most people think of me solely as a black artist, but there’s a reason why my name is Miguel,” he said."
273	adjudicated	1	Grand Rapids police worked to secure the northbound and southbound U.S. 131 ramps, according to a tweet from police.  GRAND RAPIDS, MI - Police estimated that 1,000 demonstrators showed up for an immigration march from Roosevelt Park to Grand Rapids City Hall.  The number has grown some as people in neighborhoods join in.  The group left north on Grandville Avenue SW from the park. Police closed Chicago Drive SW, between Clyde Park Avenue and Naylor Street.  Police have also closed Grandville between Martha and Olympia streets as well as nearby side streets.  The march has been peaceful, with demonstrators chanting and singing. Police have over 50 officers assigned to the march.  "Thank you for your patience as we work to keep everyone safe," police said on Facebook.  During the march, the group didn't follow police directions at one point. According to Grand Rapids police, the marchers broke through a road block at Bartlett Street SW, past police tape and police bikes. That part of the route was blocked in hopes of having the march avoid an area of heavy construction, police said in a Tweet.  As of 2:30 p.m., no arrests had been made.  "Group is peaceful, just non-compliant," police said in a Tweet.  Police said this morning that 4,000 to 6,000 people were expected.  The march is organized by Movimiento Cosecha GR which has protested deportations and violence against immigrants.  Note to readers: if you purchase something through one of our affiliate links we may earn a commission.
274	adjudicated	1	"Dozens of demonstrators took to the streets in Yonkers Monday to rally for the Westchester Immigrant Protection Act, one week before county lawmakers are due to vote to override County Executive Rob Astorino's veto of the proposal.  Their main target was county Legislator David Tubiolo, a Yonkers Republican and among five board members who voted against the bill last month.  ""Tubiolo, escucha, estamos en la lucha,"" a crowd of about 50 demonstrators on McLean Avenue chanted, Spanish for ""Tubiolo, listen, we're in the fight.""   IMMIGRATION: Legal victory for ""sanctuary cities"" only the beginning for immigration battle  ASTORINO: Rob Astorino vetoes immigration bill  VETO: Astorino's veto of immigration bill likely to stand  ""We are an immigrant county,"" said Charlotte Gossett Navarro, an organizer with the New York Immigration Coalition. ""One in four residents is an immigrant and so we really need to make sure that our representatives and our law enforcement and every county agency is representing all of our residents.""  ""This act is good for public safety for all of our residents,"" she said.  Tubiolo did not return calls for comment.  The proposed immigration act, initially passed by the Westchester County Board of Legislators on Aug. 7, would limit information the county can share with federal authorities regarding immigrants in the county, and would limit what county law enforcement can ask regarding an individual's citizenship or immigration status.  The measure passed the 17-member county board by a 10-5 vote, with two legislators — Democrat Lyndon Williams of Mount Vernon and Margaret Cunzio, a Conservative Party member from Mount Pleasant — absent.   The board's eight other Democrats all voted in favor of the act, as did two Republican legislators, David Gelfarb of Rye and Jim Maisano of New Rochelle.   But Astorino vetoed the measure on Aug. 16. Legislators now need 12 votes at its Sept. 25 meeting to override the veto. Williams is expected to vote in favor of the act, leaving supporters just one vote shy.   Astorino argued that the act would ""handcuff"" county police officers and could prompt the White House to label the Westchester a ""sanctuary"" for immigrants that could cost the county $12.9 million in federal grants.  President Donald Trump and Congressional Republicans are pushing to withhold federal dollars from states and communities that choose to be come havens, or sanctuaries, for undocumented immigrants — a push currently stalled in federal court.  Westchester County Public Safety Commissioner contends the proposed Immigrant Protection Act would limit the county's ability to work with the FBI and other federal agencies, and called the proposal ""a bad and reckless idea.""   But supporters of the act, which include community leaders, immigration advocates and Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union, said it would strengthen the bond between immigrants and law enforcement.   The union represents 163,000 members on the East Coast, including about 4,000 in the Hudson Valley, said Franklin Soults, a spokesman for the union.  ""The majority of them are immigrants,"" Soults said. ""They’re janitors, they’re concierges, they’re superintendent in buildings. They're worried about how they're going to be treated by officials.”   The debate in Westchester comes amid a growing national debate on immigration, with the Trump administration pushing for stricter enforcement and increased deportations.  One key debate has been over the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrival, or DACA, program. A 2012 executive order by President Barack Obama, DACA grants two-year reprieves from deportation for undocumented immigrants who entered the county with their parents when they were children.  There are nearly 800,000 DACA recipients, who are known as ""dreamers,"" in the country, and as many as 20,000 in the Hudson Valley.   Trump has given Congress until March to address the plight of the dreamers.   Earlier on Monday, U.S. Rep. Nita Lowey addressed the issue by hosting a roundtable discussion on the DACA program and its future. A panel of the region's top immigration, legal and government officials expressed the need for legislation to protect dreamers.  Immigration advocates have long lobbied for the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors, or DREAM Act, which has failed to pass both houses of Congress since first introduced in 2001.  The DREAM Act seeks a permanent solution to the dreamer's plight by enacting legislation that would give them legal residency and a path to citizenship.  Lowey, who is co-sponsor of the current DREAM Act bill, said Monday that she is optimistic a bipartisan compromise can be worked out.  ""This fight is not just Latinos,"" Diana Sanchez, a dreamer and member of the Yonkers Sanctuary Movement, said during Monday's rally. ""This fight is not black. This fight is not Asian, this fight is not Muslim, it's not LGTB. It's everyone's fight.""  The rally included a march to St. Barnabas Church in the Bronx, Tubiolo's church."
275	adjudicated	3	"FARMINGTON — The San Juan County Sheriff's Office denies civil rights abuse claims levied by a state immigration rights group during a rally Tuesday east of Farmington.  The Rally Against Trump's Deportation Machine was held in a gravel lot at the east entrance of McGee Park along County Road 5500, just north of the San Juan County Sheriff's Office Kirtland substation. It was staged by the Familia Unidas Por Justicia, the San Juan County membership team of Somos Un Pueblo Unido, a Santa Fe-based immigration rights group.  Somos Un Pueblo Unido spokesman Emmanuelle ""Neza"" Leal-Sanchez assisted at the event Tuesday by translating for the speakers who spoke Spanish.  Approximately 30 to 35 people attended the event, holding hand-made signs with messages including ""Don't separate my family"" and ""Sheriff and ICE go hand in hand.""  The U.S. Census Bureau states about 3.7 percent of San Juan County's population was foreign-born in 2015, including legal residents and people who are living in the country without legal permission.  Georgina Davis of Crouch Mesa said she supported the immigrants and believes all people deserve the right to live and work where they want and to have a better life.  Leal-Sanchez said in past years the rally has celebrated International Workers Day. But since President Donald Trump took office, the event has taken a different tone to defend families and protect the civil rights of immigrants from entities including the Sheriff's Office, he said.  ""The immigrant community here knows not to trust the sheriff's department,"" Leal-Sanchez said. ""They know to fear the sheriff's department because any interaction could result in the separation of families.""  Leal-Sanchez claims the Sheriff's Office collaborates with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, agents.  Capt. Brice Current of the Sheriff's Office said Somos Un Pueblo Unido uses scare tactics to further its political agenda.   ""These type of scare tactics should not be used with the people they represent,"" Current said.  The Sheriff's Office will not ask or research the immigration status of any victim, witnesses and informants involved in a case, according to Current.  Current added the Sheriff's Office also does not collaborate with ICE agents or give them support but will cooperate with them if a suspect is ""here illegally"" and is a criminal.  Sheriff Ken Christensen has previously told The Daily Times the claims from Somos Un Pueblo Unido are ""nonsense.""  One of the speakers on Tuesday, Luz Aide Hinojos, of Aztec, told the crowd a sheriff's deputy asked about her immigration status and her Social Security number during a 2016 traffic stop.  Hinojos added she asked the deputy if he was allowed to ask those questions. He replied no but asked if she would she provide the documents if he sent someone to her home according to Hinojos.  Leal-Sanchez said those negative interactions have a real, emotional consequence. He added Hinojos was exercising her civil rights when she told the sheriff's deputy she didn't have to share information regarding her immigration status. "
276	adjudicated	3	More than 300 people chanted "si se puede" at the foot of the Oregon State Capitol steps Tuesday while Gov. Kate Brown signed two bills intended to benefit immigrants as part of the 13th annual May Day rally and march.   Supporters clutched signs reading "Stop ICE raids" and "Keep Oregon a sanctuary state" and craned their necks to watch Brown sign House Bill 4111 and Senate Bill 1563. House Bill 4111 allows the DMV to renew and replace a limited-term driver's license for DACA and Temporary Protected Status recipients whose status may have expired due to federal immigration policy changes; SB 1563 would ensure continuation of current state policy on tuition equity for eligible undocumented students.   "House Bill 4111 guarantees that our dreamers and otherwise law abiding hardworking Oregonians can obtain an Oregon issued driver’s license," Brown said. "Senate Bill 1563 ensures our dreamers and immigrant students the opportunity to do their higher education goals in Oregon regardless of their immigration status."  Brown held up both bills, chanting "si se puede," inviting the crowd to erupt in identical chants.  While Brown signed both bills in the spirit of May Day's evolving focus from workers rights to include immigrant rights, rally speakers and participants focused on condemning Initiative Petition 22. That initiative petition would repeal Oregon Statute 181.850, which states law enforcement agencies may not use agency money, equipment or personnel to detect or apprehend people who are only violating federal immigration laws by being foreign citizens in the United States.  Story continues below: Rep. Mike Nearman, R-Independence, Rep. Sal Esquivel, R-Medford, and Rep. Greg Barreto, R-Pendleton, are sponsoring the petition. Oregonians for Immigration Reform, an organization that says it's calling for an end to illegal immigration, is "cosigning" the initiative.  Cristina Delgado, 29, of Washington County, said the petition would cause racial profiling to return to levels Oregonians experienced prior to the passage of the state's sanctuary state law in 1987.  "Even now we have community members who don't feel safe going into court houses and public spaces," Delgado said. "If IP 22 makes it on the ballot and Oregon voters pass it, that would make our communities of color feel unsafe."   Tim Stoelb, president of the Oregon School Employee Association, told the crowd that "elitists" have used fear of different races, genders, ethnicities and sexual orientations to justify racist and prejudicial behaviors. He did not specify who are the "elitists."  "Together we must end the hatred and remind everyone that we are part of a much larger family — the human race," Stoelb said.    Delgado called Initiative Petition 22 a scare tactic targeting immigrants, but OFIR officials told the Statesman Journal last year that every nation has the right to set its own immigration policies, and voters should have the right to vote on the state's sanctuary state law on the November ballot.   Kris Foster, 24, of Clackamas County, joined a handful of counter-protesters who attended the rally in hopes of confronting Gov. Brown with their concerns about their Second Amendment rights and legal immigration.   He said Oregon's sanctuary law allows the state to harbor criminals, and it impacts law enforcement's role in maintaining lawful order in the community.   "Not all of them are criminals, but not allowing law enforcement to work with federal law enforcement makes it harder to track down criminals who are not law abiding," Foster said.   At one point during the rally, when Ramon Ramirez, president of Pineros y Campesinos Unidos del Noroeste, was talking about Initiative Petition 22, a handful of counter-protesters got in verbal confrontation with May Day supporters. Rally supporters drowned out the whirring of a megaphone with "si se puede" chants before the confrontation subsided into mumbled insults.    Oregon State Police troopers hovered nearby but no arrests were made.  At the culmination of roughly two hours of speeches from Gov. Brown, union members, immigrant rights organizers and Rep. Teresa Alonso Leon, D-Woodburn, hundreds of supporters weaved through Downtown Salem, encircling the Oregon State Capitol, waving American and Mexican flags and chanting "El pueblo unido jamas sera vencido."  "The people united will never be defeated."
277	adjudicated	3	Seattle Times staff reporter  There are a few things that mark the arrival of spring in Seattle: unpredictable weather, the pink poofs of cherry blossoms along Lake Washington and, more recently, the sound of breaking windows and blast balls on May Day.  The annual celebration of labor, immigrant rights and free speech — with the occasional dip into anarchy and vandalism — is Tuesday, with police and labor leaders hoping for a repeat of last year’s relatively quiet exercise, where nobody was hurt, no property damaged and the number of arrests were counted on one hand. May Day March for Immigrant and Workers Rights  2:30 p.m. Tuesday: Marchers will gather and rally at Judkins Park, 2150 S. Norman St., Seattle.  3:30 p.m.: The group will march to downtown Seattle.  What police fear, though, is a repeat of 2012, when so-called black bloc protesters blended in with a peaceful immigration march to wreak havoc downtown, attacking the federal courthouse and retailers. Police were caught flat-footed, and there were injuries, extensive property damage and numerous arrests.  This is the 19th consecutive May Day that pro-immigration and workers forces will rally and march in Seattle, with hundreds expected. Juan Jose Bocanegra, co-chair of the organizing group May 1 Action Committee for El Comité, said the group has been peaceful in the past and will be this year.  Bocanegra condemned anyone who tries to co-opt the May Day March for Immigrant and Workers Rights for violent ends.  “We are peaceful and always have been,” he said. “We have families, children and elders. This is a constitutionally protected activity.”  Across U.S., May Day protests target Trump and fall elections  El Comité, a social-justice organization, is sponsoring a rally at Judson Park starting at 2:30 p.m., followed by a march down South Jackson Street to the federal courthouse in downtown Seattle an hour later.  Last year — despite rising tensions following the election of President Donald Trump and his get-tough immigration policies — the whole affair turned into something of a lovefest, encapsulated in the moment when members of a group of pro-Trump “Proud Boys” passed around a “peace joint” with anti-fascist demonstrators. The only thing missing was a verse or two of “Kumbaya.”  There were just five arrests and no injuries or property damage in Seattle. The violence, it seemed, had migrated south to Olympia and Portland, where riots erupted.  “It’s just hard to know which way it’s going to go,” said Seattle Police Deputy Chief Chris Fowler, who has overseen the department’s May Day response over the past several years.  Expect officers in riot gear and roving squads of bicycle officers who, in the past, have been used as rolling barriers to herd the crowd away from businesses. In 2015, they deftly herded a large and unruly group to a parking lot miles south of the downtown core, where it fizzled and dispersed.  “I expect our tactics will be consistent with how we’ve done this in the past,” Fowler said. “We may have to adjust according to the situation, but I don’t think we’ll be doing anything different this year.”  In the past, that has included the use of so-called “blast balls” and pepper spray to disperse crowds that become unruly. Some injuries have occurred in the past, and in 2012 the department was criticized for not having clear procedures for engaging the crowd.  Lawbreakers, Fowler said, will be arrested.  This year, the anarchists are calling for “decentralized” actions, with smaller independent groups and individuals being asked to disperse and gather at institutions citywide.  “Obviously, if that occurs it could be a headache,” Fowler said. But he said similar calls by the anarchists last year failed to materialize.  May Day has traditionally been a celebration of workers’ rights and is a day of mostly peaceful protests and celebrations. It marks the date of the Haymarket riots of 1886, when industrial workers in Chicago went on strike.  In recent history, pro-labor movements across the United States have used May 1 to demonstrate for better wages and working conditions. In recent years, the day has been used by groups to call for immigration reform.
278	adjudicated	3	Miriam Aukerman of the ACLU addresses a rally in support of people, many of them Iraqi immigrants, who have been detained by ICE. Ghada Babbie of Farmington Hills, wearing sunglasses, and her sister-in-law, Sonya Babbie, of Warren demonstrate for relative Bashar Babbie at a rally outside federal court Thursday in Detroit in support of Iraqis detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement.Jazzmin Jarbo, 6, of Shelby Township says she hopes the detainees get to come home soon.Ferial Marcus, right, of Madison Heights, Josephine Sliwa of Warren and Kristina Sanders of Oak Park demonstrate at the rally.U.S. Rep. Brenda Lawrence addresses a rally in support of immigrants who have been detained.At a rally outside the federal courthouse in Detroit Crystal Kassab Jabiro talks about the impact on the children of the people who have been detained. Sabria Pasha, left, of Sterling Heights, whose son is being detained, sits with Khiton Isaq of Troy at a rally in support of people who have been detained by ICE.People attend a rally in support of immigrants who have been detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents. 
279	adjudicated	2	[Image: Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups telling SB4 supporters to "Go Home" as their groups are gathering at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind and exchange chants with the anti-SB4 supporters.] 1of20Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups telling SB4 supporters to "Go Home" as their groups are gathering at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind and exchange chants with the anti-SB4 supporters.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle  [Image: Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind.] 2of20Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle 3of20  [Image: Proud Boys members gather at Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters across the street at Houston City Hall Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston.] 4of20Proud Boys members gather at Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters across the street at Houston City Hall Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle  [Image: A Texas Patriot Network member, who wish not to give their names, watches anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gathering at Houston City Hall for a rally from Tranquillity Park Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston.] 5of20A Texas Patriot Network member, who wish not to give their names, watches anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gathering at Houston City Hall for a rally  from Tranquillity Park Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle 6of20  [Image: Proud Boys member Ken, who wishes not to give his last name, carries a Texas flag at Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters across the street at Houston City Hall Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at city hall for a rally to speak their mind.] 7of20Proud Boys member Ken, who wishes not to give his last name, carries a Texas flag at Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters across the street at Houston City Hall Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at city hall for a rally to speak their mind.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle  [Image: Leobardo Santillan, a member of Mexicanos en Acci—n, raises a sign while anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind.] 8of20Leobardo Santillan, a member of Mexicanos en Acci—n, raises a sign while anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle 9of20  [Image: Proud Boys member Ken, who wishes not to give his last name, carries a Texas flag stands out from the rest at Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters across the street at Houston City Hall Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at city hall for a rally to speak their mind.] 10of20Proud Boys member Ken, who wishes not to give his last name, carries a Texas flag stands out from the rest at Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters across the street at Houston City Hall Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at city hall for a rally to speak their mind.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle  [Image: Cassandra Lindsey raises a sign while anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind.] 11of20Cassandra Lindsey raises a sign while anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle 12of20  [Image: Proud Boys member Ken, who wishes not to give his last name, carries a Texas flag stands out from the rest at Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters across the street at Houston City Hall Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at city hall for a rally to speak their mind.] 13of20Proud Boys member Ken, who wishes not to give his last name, carries a Texas flag stands out from the rest at Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters across the street at Houston City Hall Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at city hall for a rally to speak their mind.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle  [Image: An anti-Senate Bill 4 supporter chants while similar-minded groups gather at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind.] 14of20An anti-Senate Bill 4 supporter chants while similar-minded groups gather at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle 15of20  [Image: A Socialist Alternative-Houston member, who wishes not to give his name, raises a sign while anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind.] 16of20A Socialist Alternative-Houston member, who wishes not to give his name, raises a sign while anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at Houston City Hall for a rally Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Groups of SB4 supporters also gathered across Walker Street to speak their mind.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle  [Image: A Texas Patriot Network member, right, greets Proud Boys member Ken, who wishes not to give his last name, as they arrive Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters at Houston City Hall across the street Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston.] 17of20A Texas Patriot Network member, right, greets Proud Boys member Ken, who wishes not to give his last name, as they arrive Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters at Houston City Hall across the street Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle 18of20  [Image: Proud Boys member Ken, who wishes not to give his last name, carries a Texas flag at Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters across the street at Houston City Hall Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at city hall for a rally to speak their mind.] 19of20Proud Boys member Ken, who wishes not to give his last name, carries a Texas flag at Tranquillity Park to counterprotest anti-Senate Bill 4 supporters across the street at Houston City Hall Saturday, Aug. 12, 2017, in Houston. Anti-Senate Bill 4 groups gather at city hall for a rally to speak their mind.Yi-Chin Lee/Houston Chronicle 20of20  Dueling groups of armed protesters chanted and gave speeches Saturday outside Houston City Hall, sparring over immigration and police brutality even as the nation reeled from violence at a white nationalist rally in Virginia hours earlier.  Around 50 protesters from a left-leaning coalition read poems near Hermann Square and sang to voice their opposition to Senate Bill 4, while across the street about 15 counter-protesters from the Texas Patriot Network and Proud Boys chanted and waved a Texas flag.  "This is a protest against SB4, against police brutality and against the threat of fascism," said Houston Socialist Movement organizer David Michael Smith, who showed up armed and wearing a red hammer-and-sickle shirt emblazoned with an outline of Texas.  "Both of these things today are growing in significance and take on additional weight because of the threat from the far right, something that you see with open Nazis in the streets in Charlottesville, Virginia today," he said.  Across the street, conservative counter-protesters, some wearing camouflage, and others wearing Make America Great Again hats, offered a smattering of dissenting opinions, affirming their support for police and for SB4, the so-called "sanctuary cities" legislation. The law, signed by the governor in May, gives police officers new authority to question a detained person's immigration status and blocks local governments from passing laws that would prohibit such question.  "We're here to show our congressmen, our Senate and all of our police that we stand behind them enforcing the laws," said Jeremy Brooks of the Texas Patriot Network.  When asked if he'd still support Houston police Chief Art Acevedo in light of his opposition to SB4, Brooks said he supported the chief's right to his own opinion.  "It's his job to enforce the law. Whether or not he agrees with them, guess what, he has to enforce the law," he added.  "How would you feel if he said, 'You know what? I drink, I like alcohol so I'm going to allow people to take to the streets drinking and driving because I choose not to enforce that law."  Fellow counter-protester Laura Lee echoed Brooks' concerns. "We don't support racism or inequality, but we want our laws followed," she said. "Illegals are not immigrants. They're breaking the law to be here."  For much of the protest, left-leaning groups ignored their opponents across the street.  "We always come here peacefully and they always come hard," Leobardo Santillan said in Spanish. "We are tired of that intimidation. We are tired of the border watch and the rednecks and now some of ours had to come armed because we are responding in the same form. So they can see we are not afraid."  At times, the protesters converged at a police barrier along Walker, briefly trading barbs before police calmed the crowd.  As the afternoon wore on, the situation degenerated to juvenile taunts, with one anti-immigration activist hurling fat-shaming insults while those on the left stared back in stony silence.
280	adjudicated	3	WAUKESHA - Thousands of demonstrators marched through the streets of Waukesha on Tuesday to protest plans by the Waukesha County Sheriff"s Office to participate in a program that grants it authority to enforce federal immigration laws.     The demonstrators, organized by the Milwaukee immigration rights group Voces de la Frontera, marched to the Waukesha County Courthouse to call for an end to participation in the 287g initiative, which they denounced as anti-immigrant.      Thousands have gathered in Waukesha to march against @WaukeshaSheriff Eric Severson’s plans to turn his deputies into ICE agents. 100+ businesses are closed, thousands have left work and school. We’re marching! #No287g #Mayday #DayWithoutLatinos #WeAreAllWaukesha pic.twitter.com/hWqiqIv6Ap     — Voces de la Frontera #DreamActNow (@voces_milwaukee) May 1, 2018  The county will take part in the jail model program that gives deputized officers the authority to issue "immigration detainers" on inmates who could be subject to removal.  Two members of the corrections staff are due to attend training and certification through the Office of Immigration and Custom Enforcement (ICE) starting in mid-June. Sheriff Eric Severson said there was no firm timetable on when the program will be implemented.  RELATED: Waukesha County Sheriff Eric Severson defends immigration program, prepares for march  Severson has said the program will allow his department the "unambiguous authority to work cooperatively with ICE and honor detainers that are requested by ICE for people who are already in custody and who already are believed to have committed crimes in our community."        Is this the biggest march Waukesha has ever seen? @WaukeshaSheriff #No287g #DayWithoutLatinos #MayDay pic.twitter.com/1KvblcL3fm     — Voces de la Frontera #DreamActNow (@voces_milwaukee) May 1, 2018  But Voces Executive Director Christine Neumann-Ortiz said the program is part of President Donald Trump's agenda for the mass deportation of people of color, immigrants and refugees.  Because of that agenda, "undocumented people, fathers, mothers and children are targets for deportation," Neumann-Ortiz told demonstrators, who assembled across the street from the courthouse.  The demonstration, pegged as "A Day Without LatinXs" — a gender-neutral term for Latino or Latina — was launched from Cutler Park in downtown Waukesha, where high school students from Waukesha and Milwaukee rallied a crowd of hundreds that soon swelled to several thousand.  "There is no room for fear," Waukesha North High School student Jema Ramos declared before demonstrators began their 1½-mile march to the courthouse, escorted by Waukesha police.  After arriving, speakers condemned 287g as an effort that will separate families by deporting undocumented immigrants for minor offenses and make them afraid to report serious crimes.  One Milwaukee Riverside University High School student said his father was threatened with deportation after being stopped for driving without a license on his way to and from work.  "My father goes through this (fear) every day hoping that at the end of the day he is able to come home to see us again," he said.  Diane Voit, a former teacher and a representative-at-large to the Waukesha Board of Education, said she has witnessed first-hand the heartbreak of a student whose father was deported.  "The fear of deportation is very real," Voit said.  "Sheriff Severson, I appeal to you as a parent please consider the anxiety and fear of the children who don’t want to be separated from their families." 
281	adjudicated	1	Kalvin Michael Smith protests with Candice Johnson (right) and Frankie Gist (left) near the intersection of Martin Luther King Jr. Drive and Fifth Street.      Allison Lee Isley/Journal  [Image: Protest to Release McCrae Footage]  Venessa Ross protests with her 9-month-old John Gist take part in a May 3 protest near the intersection of Martin Luther King Jr. Drive and Fifth Street in Winston-Salem. Protesters called for the release of the body camera footage from the fatal shooting of Edward Van McCrae by a Winston-Salem police officer on March 30.      Allison Lee Isley/Journal  [Image: Protest to Release McRae Footage]  Frankie Gist (left) and Kalvin Michael Smith protest near the intersection of Martin Luther King Jr. Drive and Fifth Street to have the body camera footage released from the officer-involved fatal shooting of Edward Van McCrae on Thursday, May 3, 2018, in Winston-Salem, N.C.      Allison Lee Isley/Journal  [Image: Protest to Release McRae Footage]  Candice Johnson (left) and Kalvin Michael Smith protest near the intersection of Martin Luther King Jr. Drive and Fifth Street to have the body camera footage released from the officer-involved fatal shooting of Edward Van McCrae on Thursday, May 3, 2018, in Winston-Salem, N.C. Kalvin Michael Smith joined 14 other protesters Thursday as they demanded the release of a police video in the officer-involved fatal shooting of a Winston-Salem man five weeks ago.  The protesters demonstrated on the sidewalk along Martin Luther King Jr. Drive near its intersection with Fifth Street. Smith said he participated because he was wrongly convicted and served nearly 20 years for a crime he said he didn’t commit.  The protesters carried signs such as “Release the Tapes” and “We Have Not Forgotten.”  Smith said he knew Edward Van McCrae, the 60-year-old man who was shot and killed by a Winston-Salem police officer on March 20.  “People supported me, and I want to protest to support him,” Smith said. “It’s all about justice.”  Officer Dalton McGuire shot McCrae after McGuire stopped the car that McCrae was riding in at the intersection of Bowen Boulevard and Douglas Hill Drive.Police have said that McCrae, who was in the back seat of the car, was acting suspiciously and tried to reach to concealed areas of the car during the stop. Police said McGuire told McCrae several times to stop, but that McCrae ignored him.  An SBI agent told the Journal that McGuire pulled McCrae out of the car and that the two men struggled. Police and the SBI agent said that when McGuire saw a handgun he shot McCrae. A judge recently denied a request from the Winston-Salem Journal to publicly release police video of the incident.  Smith spent nearly 20 years in prison after a Forsyth County jury convicted him of the 1995 assault of Jill Marker, an assistant manager at the former Silk Plant Forest store off Silas Creek Parkway. As a result of that assault, Marker lives in Ohio under 24-hour care. Smith’s supporters questioned whether Marker’s severe brain injuries would have enabled her to identify Smith as her attacker.  Smith was released from prison in 2016 after a motion alleged his trial attorney failed to present certain evidence that could have gotten him a shorter sentence.  In February, a prosecutor dismissed a misdemeanor assault on a female charge against Smith after the prosecuting witness, Sharika Elandra Alexander, failed to show up for a hearing in Forsyth District Court. Smith had been accused of assaulting Alexander during an argument last August between Smith and another woman, Candice Monique Johnson.  Smith has another pending misdemeanor assault on a female charge. He is accused of punching and kicking Johnson on Jan. 23. Smith has denied the assault allegations. He is scheduled to appear in Forsyth District Court on the assault charge on May 29.
282	adjudicated	3	Groups protest detention of undocumented immigrants 20-year U.S. resident housed in Clay County is focus of event      By Dave Taylor Tribune-Star • Brazil     May 9, 2018     May 9, 2018  [Image: Groups protest detention of undocumented immigrants]  Submitted photoOn the front steps: Protesters on Wednesday participated in a prayer vigil and “Joshua Walk” in support of a Salvadoran mother of three U.S.-born children and other immigrants who are being detained by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. They protested at the Clay County Justice Center, which also is Indiana’s only ICE detention center.  Sonia Avile was taken last week from her Indianapolis home of nearly two decades and driven more than 50 miles to the Clay County Jail, where she is being held as an undocumented alien.  The official name of the building where the sheriff’s office is also located is the “Clay County Justice Center.” But about 40 people who protested outside the facility Wednesday say there is no justice for Avile and thousands like her.  They participated in a prayer vigil and “Joshua Walk” in support of the Salvadoran mother of three U.S.-born children and thousands of other immigrants who are being detained by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents.  “It is our duty to fight for our families, neighbors and communities as they are terrorized by the modern-day Gestapo, ICE,” said lead-off speaker Gurt Masterson of Indianapolis.  Avile helped found Iglesia Amigos church on the capital city’s east side and “is much more of a community member and citizen that I ever am. She should be treated as such,” said Masterson, a member of the service workers union Unite Here.  Sister Barbara Battista of the Sisters of Providence at St. Mary-of-the-Woods said the group gathered to say, “las familias primero – families first.”  The Sisters of Providence and the group Faith in Indiana sponsored the vigil to send several messages, Battista said.  “One of support for Sonia and her family support for Avile and her family; another to say to our leaders in Washington and here in Indiana, ‘Respect families, respect children, support the well being of hard working contributing members of our community,’” she said. “We the people do not support tearing families apart.”  Decisions made at the highest level of government “dishonor the moral fabric of this country,” Battista said. “When ICE agents rip a mother from her children [and] when we stand by when ethnic cleansing runs rampant in our community, we are bending away from justice.”  People of Faith and others in what she called the “human community” can choose to show those in power the universe is “bending toward justice.”  Battista called facilities such as the Clay County Jail, Indiana’s only ICE detention center, “a modern day internment camp.” She spoke against recently announced plans for a new private detention facility in Kentland, Indiana, after similar plans for a similar project in Elkhart were derailed by protests.  Avile’s husband, Elmer Peña, said the only reason his wife is jailed is because she came to the U.S. illegally and that most Latinos want to support America in advancing.  “I don’t understand why the new administration is doing all of these cruel things to the Latino people,” he said. “We’re just people who came to this country to work.”  Peña said his children are suffering, waking up in the middle of the night and asking for their mother.  His voice breaking, he said, “I only ask God to give me the courage and the strength to go forward and that everything might work out OK.”  At the conclusion of its vigil, the group walked seven times around the jail while singing “Joshua Fought the Battle of Jericho.”  Lyrics of the African-American spiritual refer to the biblical story of Jesus leading the Israelites out of Canaan. However, some scholars say the words may also allude to the escape from slavery.  Given the opportunity to comment on the vigil and the “modern-day Gestapo” comparison, ICE spokesman Shawn Neudauer said, “U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement fully respects the rights of all people to voice their opinion without interference.”
283	adjudicated	2	Undocumented Immigrant Moms Hold Mother's Day Rally Demanding U.S. Stop Tearing Families Apart By Chantal Da Silva On 5/13/18 at 8:07 AM EDT  [Image: GettyImages-642130174] Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedInShare on RedditShare on Flipboard Share via Email Comments U.S. Mother's day Undocumented Immigrants Trump administration United States  On the eve of Mother's Day, a group of undocumented immigrant moms gathered in MacArthur Park in Los Angeles, California, to protest against the Trump administration's hardline immigration policies.  The rally, organized by immigration advocacy group Cosecha, called on the administration to provide permanent protection to undocumented immigrants in the U.S. and to stop tearing mothers away from their children.  "As families celebrate their mothers this Sunday, millions of immigrant mothers live with uncertainty and fear of being separated from their children," Cosecha said in a statement shared on Facebook.  "Millions of mothers have made the hard choice to leave their homelands to give their children a better chance in life and have worked hard to build a community to safely settle their families," the immigrant rights group added.  Led by undocumented mothers, dozens of people marched through the street of Los Angeles after the group shared stories and sang songs of protest in MacArthur Park.  "Listen my people, my condors, my eagles, no human being could ever be illegal," singers chanted.  The rally comes in response to President Donald Trump's continued campaign to crack down on both legal and illegal immigration.  The U.S. Department of Justice recently announced that it would separate parents and children at the border if parents are caught "smuggling a child" into the country, representing a departure from a long-held immigration policy allowing families to stay together while their cases are processed.  "If you are smuggling a child, then we will prosecute you and that child will be separated from you as required by law," Attorney General Jeff Sessions said earlier this month during an address at the Association of State Criminal Investigative Agencies' 2018 spring conference. "If you don't like that, then don't smuggle children over our border," he added.  The Trump administration also recently ended Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for people from Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua and Haiti. The provision was created to provide refuge to people leaving countries affected by environmental disasters, armed conflict and other threats to safety.  As many as 200,000 Salvadorans, 59,000 Haitians, 57,000 Hondurans and 5,300 Nicaraguans are expected to lose their protected status in 2019. Protections have also ended for roughly 9,000 Nepalese immigrants, as well as for certain groups of immigrants from Liberia.  TPS holders have also given birth to as many as 273,000 children while in the U.S., according to the Center for Migration Studies, meaning many parents will be forced to decide whether to stay in the country and risk deportation or return to their home countries with or without their children, who have been born U.S. citizens.  People brought to the U.S. illegally as children also face uncertainty since the Trump administration announced the end of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program last fall.  Republican lawmakers have made a recent push to try to force a vote on immigration with hopes of ending that uncertainty.  Read more: What is the 'Queen of the Hill' Rule? How GOP lawmakers plan to force DACA vote  Republican lawmakers are trying to force House leadership to take up a series of votes on legislation to protect immigrants who were brought to the country illegally by their parents.  A group of Republican lawmakers introduced a discharge petition which would force a debate and votes on four immigration proposals using the "queen of the hill rule" which sees whichever bill that gets the most votes being the bill that moves forward.
284	adjudicated	3	Immigration advocates begin their 90-mile march from Detroit to Lansing on Monday in a demonstration aimed atÊraising awareness of strict federal immigration policy the impacts of deportation. The march started at Central United Methodist Church in Downtown Detroit where Albania-native Ded Rranxburgaj has sought sanctuary for the last four months to avoid deportation.Ê(Tanya Moutzalias | MLive.com) Albania-born Ded Rranxburgaj, unable to leave the church, waves goodbye to immigration advocates as they begin their 90-mile march from Detroit to Lansing on Monday in a demonstration aimed atÊraising awareness of strict federal immigration policy the impacts of deportation. The march started at Central United Methodist Church in Downtown Detroit where Rranxburgaj has sought sanctuary for the last four months to avoid deportation.Ê(Tanya Moutzalias | MLive.com) Immigration advocates begin their 90-mile march from Detroit to Lansing on Monday in a demonstration aimed atÊraising awareness of strict federal immigration policy the impacts of deportation. The march started at Central United Methodist Church in Downtown Detroit where Albania-native Ded Rranxburgaj has sought sanctuary for the last four months to avoid deportation.Ê(Tanya Moutzalias | MLive.com) Immigration advocates begin their 90-mile march from Detroit to Lansing on Monday in a demonstration aimed atÊraising awareness of strict federal immigration policy the impacts of deportation. The march started at Central United Methodist Church in Downtown Detroit where Albania-native Ded Rranxburgaj has sought sanctuary for the last four months to avoid deportation.Ê(Tanya Moutzalias | MLive.com) Immigration advocates begin their 90-mile march from Detroit to Lansing on Monday in a demonstration aimed atÊraising awareness of strict federal immigration policy the impacts of deportation. The march started at Central United Methodist Church in Downtown Detroit where Albania-native Ded Rranxburgaj has sought sanctuary for the last four months to avoid deportation.Ê(Tanya Moutzalias | MLive.com) Immigration advocates begin their 90-mile march from Detroit to Lansing on Monday in a demonstration aimed atÊraising awareness of strict federal immigration policy the impacts of deportation. The march started at Central United Methodist Church in Downtown Detroit where Albania-native Ded Rranxburgaj has sought sanctuary for the last four months to avoid deportation.Ê(Tanya Moutzalias | MLive.com)
285	adjudicated	4	"Parents, sons and daughters, observers, politicians, activists and educators were just some of the people that could be seen Saturday afternoon along West Ludington Avenue, holding signs, clapping, cheering and waving to passersby in the 90-plus-degree heat.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Though the 150 people gathered Saturday afternoon in Rotary Park came from a wide array of backgrounds, they united with the one goal: to speak out against immigration policies that lead to the separation of children from their families.  Ludington joined thousands of communities across the nation in holding Keep Families Together demonstrations to protest current policies, shouting chants like “Love not hate makes America great,” and “Make America moral again.”  The protest was organized by Kate Glancy and Logan Walworth of Ludington. More from this section Comedian Chris Rock arrives for show after Oscars slap Comedian Chris Rock arrives for show after Oscars slap Jan. 6th committee votes to hold two in contempt Jan. 6th committee votes to hold two in contempt Biden: 'I make no apologies' for Putin comment Biden: 'I make no apologies' for Putin comment  “It’s part of the national day of action, which is why we picked (Saturday), and we’re protesting family separations on the border,” Glancy said. “We’re horrified by seeing images and hearing audio tapes of children crying for their parents, so we wanted to make it known that Ludington has a strong contingent of people against those policies.”  The turnout for the short but attention-grabbing gathering was better than anticipated, and Glancy and Walworth said they were elated with the results.  “It’s absolutely more than we had expected,” Walworth said. “It’s even bigger than we thought.”  Read the full story in Monday's Ludington Daily News print and e-Editions  Facebook Twitter WhatsApp Email Print      Save  Tags      Protesters Protest Keeping Families Together Ludington Avenue Indivisible Group Mike Taillard Immigration Policies Border Policy Rotary Park Rally National Day Of Action Ludington Politics Institutes Ministries Barry Matthews Lawmaker Kate Glancy Logan Walworth Policy Ludington Daily Immigration Parents   Riley Kelley  Daily News Staff Writer      Author email  Trending Food Videos Recent Obituaries      More   View All (18) [Wayne Hughes] Wayne Hughes Sign Guest Book [Ronald King] Ronald King Sign Guest Book [Marie Parsons] Marie Parsons Sign Guest Book [Carolyn Gemmell] Carolyn Gemmell Sign Guest Book [Helen Jansen] Helen Jansen Sign Guest Book Carolyn Gemmell Latest e-Edition Ludington Daily News Ludington Daily News      Already a subscriber? Click the image on the left to view the latest e-edition.      Don't have a subscription? Click here to see our subscription options.   News In Your Inbox! Coronavirus Updates Shoreline Steals & Deals Ludington Daily News: Breaking News Ludington Daily News: Daily Headlines Ludington Daily News: Events & Entertainment Ludington Daily News: Obituaries What's Trending      Blighted Jebavy Drive apartments getting redone by new owners     Veteran, wife file suit over Copeyon Park siren     Timothy Ray Palacios II     Spring break activities ramp back up in area     Scottville considers charging fees for PM boat launch, cites ongoing damage  Trending Recipes      Grand Burgers     Missy's Peanut Butter Passion Cake     Tuna Noodle Casserole With Cream Cheese (No Canned Soup)  Poll Should daylight savings time stay permanent? Yes No Facebook  Featured Adoptable Pet - Compliments of Petfinder.com View Jonah on Petfinder.com  Jonah  Mason County Animal Control  Ludington, MI        Illinois     Hancock Journal-Pilot     Hoopeston Chronicle     The Independent News     Iroquois Times-Republic     Journal-Republican     The News-Gazette      Indiana     Fountain Co. Neighbor     Hartford City News-Times     Herald Journal     KV Post News     Lafayette Leader     Newton Co. Enterprise     Rensselaer Republican     Review-Republican     Winchester News-Gazette      Iowa     Atlantic News Telegraph     Audubon Advocate-Journal     Barr's Post Card News     Collector's Journal     Fayette County Union     Ft. Madison Daily Democrat     Independence Bulletin-Journal     Keokuk Daily Gate City     Oelwein Daily Register     Vinton Newspapers     Waverly Newspapers      Michigan     Iosco County News-Herald     Ludington Daily News     Oceana's Herald-Journal     Oscoda Press     White Lake Beacon      New York     Finger Lakes Times     Olean Times Herald     Salamanca Press      Pennsylvania     Bradford Era     Clearfield Progress     Courier Express     Free Press Courier     Jeffersonian Democrat     Leader Vindicator     Potter Leader-Enterprise     Tri County Sunday     The Wellsboro Gazette  © Copyright 2022 Shoreline Media Group, 202 N. Rath Ave. Ludington, MI | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com."
286	adjudicated	2	Eighteen people were arrested at an immigration protest that shut down the Blue Line light-rail line Tuesday morning, forcing passengers to be shuttled on buses between 46th Street and Terminal 2 at the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport.  A dozen people demanding an end to deportations sat on the tracks, blocking the train near the Whipple Federal Building at Fort Snelling until they were arrested. After they were led away, six more sat down and were also arrested. All were charged with two misdemeanor counts of interference with transit and trespassing.  About 130 people in all were involved in the protest, organized by the Poor People's Campaign and the Minnesota Immigrant Rights Action Committee. Four of those arrested were ministers, three from Unitarian congregations.  Rob Eller-Isaacs, co-minister of Unity Church-Unitarian in St. Paul said the protest objective was "to draw attention to the immoral activities of ICE [U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement] and the bankrupt immigration policies of the United States. The deportations are breaking up families."  The demonstration was denounced Tuesday by state Rep. Nick Zerwas, R-Elk River, who authored legislation that would result in more serious charges for blocking thoroughfares. The latest effort was vetoed by Gov. Mark Dayton, who called the legislation's wording too vague.  "Today's protest is the latest example of why we need increased penalties for those who choose to put the public at risk by blocking highways, the airport, or access to transit," Zerwas said in a statement. David Joles, Star Tribune A frustrated commuter who had been on a light rail train asked demonstrators to move off the track so the train could proceed before law enforcement officials began arresting protestors who had shut down the light rail at the Fort Snelling light rail station by blocking the train tracks Tuesday, May 22, 2018, in Minneapolis, MN. The protest was in response to ICE raids on undocumented immigrants in the U.S.  "Governor Dayton's veto of my bill allows for this unsafe, criminal behavior to continue with little more than a slap on the wrist for those who take part."  The Blue Line was shut down between 8:50 a.m. and 10:30 a.m., said Howie Padilla, a Metro Transit spokesman.  During the demonstration, protesters who were not arrested stood across a roadway that led to a parking lot adjacent to the light-rail station, forcing drivers to turn around.  "I need to go to work," commuter Cindy Smrcina angrily shouted out her car window as demonstrators walked up to the front of her car. "Why are you blocking us? It is selfish on your part. I have a job to get to."  Metro Transit police were generally gentle, asking older protesters if they wanted help getting to their feet as they were arrested for sitting on the tracks.  Among those charged was Ruthie Mhanga, 28, of Apple Valley, who is studying theology and said she has never been arrested in a protest before. "We need to be giving these people [who are facing deportation] the human dignity they deserve and the love and respect when they are facing hard times," she said.  Randy Furst is a Star Tribune general assignment reporter covering a range of issues, including tenants rights, minority rights, American Indian rights and police accountability. 
287	adjudicated	3	MINEOLA, Long Island (WABC) -- A protest was held Tuesday ahead of President Donald Trump's visit to Long Island to discuss the administration's efforts to eradicate MS-13, with organizers saying more are planned for Wednesday.  The groups demonstrated on the steps of the Nassau County Legislature, saying Trump's "xenophobia and racism" are not welcome on Long Island and that he is using gang violence to paint all immigrants with the same brush.  New York Congressman Pete King's office said they're expecting the president to travel to Bethpage, one week after Trump raised eyebrows when he used the word "animals" to describe some people who enter the country illegally in response to a comment about MS-13.  The president has doubled down on his rhetoric, saying he will continue to use the term in referring to the gang.  The White House also released a fact sheet Monday morning, titled, "WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT THE VIOLENT ANIMALS OF MS-13."  Trump traveled to Suffolk County Community College last July to discuss the gang before law enforcement officials.  Protest organizers say they are committed to "resisting Trump's assaults on immigrant families and communities and call on elected officials across the region to stand with them in solidarity and reject Trump's visit." They also ripped local politicians who plan on attending Trump''s event.  "As law enforcement departments from both counties stand next to this man, let's remember that his type of hatred and rhetoric only fuels gang recruitment," said Sergio Argueta, with the group Strong Youth.  But Nassau County's executive, Democrat Laura Curran, said she's attending in the hopes it'll help in the fight against MS-13.  "It's the president of the United States," she said. "He's coming to Nassau County. Perhaps we can get some resources and federal help, and I am open to having that bi-partisan conversation."  At least 27 murders are now blamed on the notorious gang.
288	adjudicated	3	Anabell Saenz, 7, participates in an immigration rally urging the federal government to stop separating families and keeping children in detention centers Thursday outside the El Paso County Courthouse. About 100 El Pasoans participate in an immigration rally Thursday in Downtown El Paso, urging the federal government to stop keeping immigrant children in detention centers. About 100 people participate in an immigration rally Thursday in Downtown El Paso, urging the federal government to stop keeping immigrant children in detention centers. About 100 residents participate in an immigration rally in Downtown El Paso, urging the federal government to stop keeping immigrant children in detention centers. About 100 El Pasoans participate in an immigration rally in Downtown El Paso, urging the federal government to stop keeping immigrant children in detention centers. Fernando Garcia, founding director of the Border Network for Human Rights, speaks at an immigration rally Thursday in Downtown El Paso. About 100 El Pasoans participate in an immigration rally in downtown El Paso urging the federal government to stop keeping immigrant children in detention centers. Linda Rivas of Las Americas Immigrant Advocacy Center speaks at an immigration rally Thursday outside the El Paso County Courthouse. About 100 people participate in an immigration rally Thursday in Downtown El Paso, urging the federal government to stop keeping immigrant children in detention centers. About 100 people participate in an immigration rally Thursday in Downtown El Paso, urging the federal government to stop keeping immigrant children in detention centers.
289	adjudicated	2	Minneapolis, MN - More than 100 people came to a noon rally, June 1, to protest the Trump administration’s policy of separating immigrant children from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border. The protest at the U.S. Courthouse downtown was called on very short notice.  The rally was initiated by the American Civil Liberties Union and included speakers from the ACLU as well as the Minnesota Immigrant Rights Action Committee and Minneapolis Ward 3 City Council member Steve Fletcher.  Another hastily-called protest on the same issue happened May 30 outside of Senator Klobuchar’s office, demanding that she initiate congressional action to try to stop the cruel policy of separating children from their parents at the U.S.-Mexico border.  While the separation of immigrant families on a massive scale has been an integral feature of U.S. immigration policy for decades, news reports this week about the Trump administration’s escalation of such policies at the border has provoked outrage, and a new wave of protests is starting to emerge around the country.
290	adjudicated	3	A 300-mile march across New Jersey in support of driver's licenses for undocumented immigrants made its way on Monday afternoon to Newark, where advocates chanted "licenses yes, promises no" as they made their way through the city's streets.  "The immigrant community in New Jersey deserves to drive without fear,'' Catalina Santiago shouted into a bullhorn as she and about 10 others walked on Springfield Avenue toward Irvington and their final destination for the day, Maplewood. "They need to have the safety of knowing that cops will not stop them, and that they will not pile numerous amount of tickets for not having the access to driver's licenses, and to know they can take their children to a hospital or a clinic."  Some of the marchers will walk the entire 300 miles over 11 days. The walk was organized by Movimiento Cosecha, a national coalition with members in various states who have organized sit-ins and marches on behalf of undocumented immigrants.  The walk, which began on Friday in New Brunswick, is scheduled to end with a rally in Trenton on June 11. Marchers walk 9 to 10 miles each day in areas with large immigrant populations. At night they either go home or stay with supporters, resuming the walk the next day in a different location. On Tuesday, the marchers will make their way to the cities of Passaic and Paterson.   "We are going through immigrant-heavy areas and hoping that people will join us,'' said Carlos Rojas Rodriguez, a community organizer. "We know we are going to get licenses when people are more active."   More: Young N.J. activists back 'Day Without Immigrants' boycott  More: Advocates embark on 300-mile NJ walk supporting licenses for undocumented immigrants  The journey hasn't always been easy. Marchers said they often are greeted with support, from onlookers who raise their arms in solidarity and from drivers who honk their horns, but they have also encountered open hostility. Someone threw a bucket of water at one of the marchers over the weekend. The participants chose not to dwell on those parts of the experience.   "At the end of the day, they are the minority,'' said Santiago, who is from Florida and is working on the driver's license campaign in New Jersey.   Many people who have stopped them don't know that New Jersey driver's licenses aren't available to immigrants without legal status, she said.  A proposal for licenses  A bill, the New Jersey Safe and Responsible Driver Act, was reintroduced this year by Assemblywoman Annette Quijano, D-Union. It would extend driving privileges to people who are living in the country illegally, as well as to the homeless, veterans and other populations that may have trouble meeting the requirements of the state Motor Vehicle Commission's Six-Point ID verification program to obtain a New Jersey driver’s license.    Quijano said last month that the bill is being updated to address concerns that have been raised about residency requirements and the potential for fraud. One goal, she said, is to avoid lapses that have led some states, such as Maryland, to issue licenses to undocumented people who do not actually live there.  Gov. Phil Murphy, a Democrat, has said he would support such a measure, Last month, he said the legislation is moving along.  Critics of extending driving privileges to those in the country illegally say it rewards lawbreakers and leads to fraud and security concerns.  Proponents of the bill say it will make New Jersey's roads safer by requiring newly licensed drivers to be tested, trained and insured, and that it would help the state’s economy because the number of customers who could purchase automobiles and car insurance would grow.   One of the marchers, Andres Rojas, 44, said he appreciates the support from strangers he has encountered along the way. Rojas, who came from Mexico in 1994 and now lives in New Brunswick, said he relies on his son, a U.S. citizen, to drive him to work and the grocery store, and that he would prefer to have a license of his own.   "They give us hope,'' he said. "It's time we got licenses."   Keyon Hall, 40, who was waiting for a bus at the corner of Springfield Avenue and Jones Street, said he thinks driver's licenses should be given to immigrants without legal status. Hall, a U.S. citizen who lives in Irvington, said his family came to the United States from Jamaica decades ago.   "People come to this country to work,'' Hall said. "If they are coming here to work to better their lives, they need better jobs with better pay, and those jobs sometimes require them to drive and have a license."
291	adjudicated	3	President Donald Trump's policy of separating parents and children along the U.S.-Mexico border drew critics Friday during a protest in Fort Worth near U.S. Rep. Kay Granger's office.  Calling themselves Patriots for the Children, teachers, speech pathologists, mental health specialists and self-described Christians were among the 79 peaceful protesters who lined up along University Drive at 8 a.m. with a message for lawmakers: "Reunite children with their Parents! Now!"  The protesters, who also held signs with biblical verses, stood on the public sidewalk near 1701 River Run, which is Granger's local office. A message to Granger's office was not immediately returned Friday morning.  The protesters joined critics nationwide who want the Trump administration to end the so-called zero tolerance policy on the border, which criminally prosecutes people crossing the border illegally, even those seeking asylum. Nationwide, activists have been holding rallies and protests called "Families Belong Together."  "I had to do something," said Peggy Pate, who came from Arlington to voice her concerns. "It's an unchristian affront against humanity."      In the first #500days, DOJ put in place a zero tolerance policy for illegally crossing our Southwest Border.     — Justice Department (@TheJusticeDept) June 4, 2018  Pate echoed the concerns of several protesters who also admonished U.S. Attorney Jeff Sessions. Sessions quoted the Bible in defense of the policy this week.  Sessions told an audience in Indiana: "Persons who violate the law of our nation are subject to prosecution. I would cite you to the Apostle Paul and his clear and wise command in Romans 13 to obey the laws of the government because God has ordained them for the purpose of order," Sessions said. "Orderly and lawful processes are good in themselves and protect the weak and lawful."  Pate's answer to Sessions: "Jesus would be out here with a sign." Zero tolerance  Friday's protest ended with participants walking to a foyer in the building where Granger's office is located. Participants hope to garner Granger's attention on this issue. Among participants was Vanessa Adia, a teacher and Granger's Democratic opponent in the mid-term elections.  "I am here today — along with all of these other people — to stand up for the side that is right," Adia said, explaining that protesters are uniting against a policy they believe is "inhumane."      We’re on the way to Kay Granger’s office to say it’s time for her to end her silence, take action, and do what’s right. #StopSeparatingFamilies #FamilesBelongTogether pic.twitter.com/WixYsMasqY     — Vanessa Adia (@VanessaAdiaTX12) June 15, 2018  Lawmakers have been weighing in on the issue. Earlier this week, media reports stated that Sen. Ted Cruz, (R-Texas) defended the policy. He said migrant children can't be detained with parents in jails.  "So when you see reporters, when you see Democrats saying don't separate kids from their parents, what they're really saying is don't arrest illegal aliens," Cruz told Dallas Public Radio Station KERA. He likened the situation to American citizens who are arrested and placed in prison and have to find alternative care for their youngsters.  But Bill Holston, executive director of the Human Rights Initiative of North Texas, said this issue is more complicated than this comparison because the government is supposed to review claims of asylum made by people coming into this country. In the past, families were typically paroled together while claims of asylum went through the immigration court system.  “What changed is that there is a zero tolerance,” Holston said, explaining that people who cross illegally into the United States are now charged with an "improper entry," which is a misdemeanor type offense for first-time violators. Repeat offenders —those who have been caught and charged with crossing the border in the past — can face tougher charges, he said.  “Everyone is being prosecuted and now you are creating a class of unaccompanied minors,” Holston said, explaining that when parents are incarcerated, the children are placed in the system created for unaccompanied migrant children. “That’s why all of these shelters are overwhelmed.” A continued protest  Emily Daw, an English teacher at Western Hills High School, said one reason she protested Friday was because she thinks immigrant children are being used a political pawns.  "It's not right to tear families apart — who are trying to get to get to safety, who are trying to get a better life," Daw said.  Ernie Moran, another local school teacher and former journalist, planned the grassroots protest. He said they will protest again next Friday and will continue throughout the summer "until the policy change is rescinded."  The first protest, held last week, drew six participants, Moran said.  Moran said the issue transcends the politics of blue vs. red or Democrat vs. Republican.  "This is not a left vs. right thing," Moran said. 
292	adjudicated	3	A group of Rockland residents turned out Saturday, June 2, to protest an "activist training" session led by a state legislator known for his anti-immigrant, anti-Muslim views.  The location of the Maine First Project event, organized by state Rep. Lawrence Lockman, a third-term Republican from Amherst, was kept secret. He recruited people via the internet, but people who wanted to attend had to send him private messages in order to be approved for the session.  Becca Glaser of Rockland, along with her father, City Councilor Ed Glaser, were among the protesters who turned out at noon Saturday at the Rockland Public Library, where they had heard the training session might be held.  "The Maine First Project was keeping a tight wrap on the location, as they know their racist, anti-LGBTQI views are not popular in Maine, so even if they are not at the Rockland Public Library, the group will rally to show our values for diversity and inclusivity — a welcoming Maine with room for all of us," Becca Glaser said in a written statement handed out at the protest.  "The responsibility of all caring people is to show up and speak out against the creep of anti-immigrant racism and other bigotry disguised in the cloak of what it means to be a Mainer. We will not let their voice be louder than ours! And we ultimately hope that their empathy will come to be expanded to understand there is enough for all of us, and that we are much stronger when we expand the circle of who we care about," she said.  Rep. Paula Sutton, a first-term legislator from Warren, attended the training session.  "I made a short presentation on the topic of rank choice voting to a group of people who were attending a training class on political networking and marketing," Sutton said Sunday in an email response to the Courier-Gazette.  On her Facebook page, Sutton said it was a civilized event with about a dozen people in attendance.  On Monday, Sutton responded to the issue of immigration.  "I warmly embrace all legal immigrants and am a regular at a few locally owned businesses run by new immigrants. I applaud their business skills and entrepreneurial pursuits, whether they have a seamstress shop, a restaurant or nail salon, as those are the places I patronize regularly," Sutton said.  "It may serve your readers if you could keep the differences in mind between illegal and legal immigration. This detail seems to be strangely overlooked at times and is quite important," she said.  The Maine First Project mission includes ending refugee resettlement programs and any assistance to communities that accept immigrants. The Maine First Project also posts links to Maine First Media, which features anti-Muslim videos and stories.  Those stories include ones with headlines such as "Exposed: Open-border leftists plot to invade rural Maine with Muslim refugees."
293	adjudicated	2	VERONA - What happens when you hold a rally and hardly anyone shows up?  That's what occurred Saturday at the Augusta County Government Center as the Virginia Division of the Ghost Squad, a local militia, held a public rally to rail against Nexus Services Inc., more specifically its subsidiary, Libre by Nexus, which provides GPS tracking to detained immigrants so they can be released while awaiting court hearings.  "They're putting our community and our neighbors ... in danger by releasing these people out into the community with these ankle bracelets on," said Larry Lewis, head of the Virginia Division of the Ghost Squad.  Only about a dozen people, most all of whom appeared to be militia members, some armed with rifles and handguns and wearing military garb, went to the rally at the government center that Lewis had thought would generate hundreds of people in support of his cause.  More: Man guilty of Staunton abduction  To add insult to injury, about 25 minutes after the rally was supposed to start, Lewis and another organizer, Penny Rutter, were served with a defamation lawsuit filed Friday in Augusta County Circuit Court by Nexus over comments reportedly made about the company on social media.  "We'll just have to see what happens with it," Lewis said when asked about the lawsuit.  A day before the protest, Nexus CEO Mike Donovan sent a letter to Augusta County Sheriff Donald Smith expressing licensing concerns about a "security team" with the Ghost Squad, and told Smith they should be disarmed unless they conform with Virginia law.  "Please know Nexus Services Inc. reserves all rights in this matter and will take whatever action necessary to protect our rights and the rights of our employees," Donovan said in the letter.  On Saturday, it looked as though Sheriff Smith was not willing to take any chances. The government center's parking lot, at least two football fields long, was barricaded by county vehicles, and temporary video surveillance run by generators was seen atop some light poles. Sheriff's deputies were stationed at several points along the perimeter, and it also appeared that additional law enforcement was inside the government center.   More: Lee High shuts out George Mason 3-0 to claim regional soccer championship  The Ghost Squad is affiliated with The Three Percenters, listed as an anti-government group by the Southern Poverty Law Center. The Law Center also cites some examples of racial targeting in the past by some members of The Three Percenters.  Lewis denied accusations of being racist, but his Facebook page espouses racist views such as "Anti Muslim and Proud" along with a second racist and highly offensive photo of President Barack Obama.  Although Saturday's rally was slated to end at 2 p.m., the militia began packing up an hour before and were gone shortly after 1 p.m.  Asked about the light turnout, Lewis said, "I'm really disappointed that more people in community didn't show up."  At the end of the rally, Donovan said he invited Lewis and some others to the Verona campus of Nexus, where he explained the company's business model. Donovan said he also made Lewis an offer that he said is still being contemplated.  "I told them if they issue a retraction, I'll drop the lawsuit," Donovan said.
294	adjudicated	2	A group of nearly a dozen activists campaigning for driver's licenses for immigrants, regardless of their legal status, made their way through the Bayshore area Thursday as part of their 300-mile trek across the Garden State.  They were seen chanting outside the Motor Vehicle Commission office in Hazlet, holding a large white banner that says "driver's licenses for all." The group walked along Route 35 through Matawan, Middletown and Red Bank before arriving at a small rally at St. Thomas Episcopal Church on Sunset Avenue in Red Bank.    "As was expected, a lot of people greeted us with good vibes, giving us thumbs up or honking the horn," said Osvaldo Rodriguez, 27, a recipient of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program who lives in Red Bank.  But Rodriguez, who has walked part time, says the activists have encountered hostility on this leg of their journey. Some motorists held up the middle finger yelling "build the wall," and two pulled over to criticize the group, participants said.  The backlash, however, hasn't deterred the activists from continuing their journey. They plan to get to Trenton by June 11.   The trek, which started May 31 in New Brunswick, was organized by the national immigrant rights coalition Movimiento Cosecha, or "the Harvest Movement" in English. Several members, including Rodriguez, have lived in New Jersey.  Participants say they are walking to support the New Jersey Safe and Responsible Driver Act, which Assemblywoman Annette Quijano, D-Union, reintroduced in January. The legislation proposes expanding driving privileges to people who cannot meet the requirements of the Motor Vehicle Commission's Six-Point ID verification program, including undocumented immigrants, homeless people and domestic violence victims.  While Gov. Phil Murphy said he would support the bill, members of Movimiento Cosecha said Thursday they hear the bill may not move forward until October.  "It's time the politicians fulfill the promises they've been making us for 15 years because undocumented people deserve to drive in this state," Catalina Santiago said Thursday in Spanish during a Facebook Live video. Santiago, a Florida resident, is working on the New Jersey licenses campaign for Movimiento Cosecha. But some critics say those promises shouldn't be kept at all. Opponents of illegal immigration along the Shore say undocumented immigrants shouldn't be rewarded for living here without legal status.  State Sen. Christopher J. Connors, Assembly Brian E. Rumpf and Assemlywoman DiAnne C. Gove, R-Ocean, criticized the legislation in a joint statement in May.  “Essential programs and services for legal residents are on the chopping block all while the needs of illegal aliens continue to be prioritized ... residents face the prospect of waiting longer in the MVC line while illegal aliens are applying for a driver’s license with limited identification documents, such as the ones legal residents are required to produce," they said in the statement.  The legislators also expressed security concerns and called the legislation "irresponsible."  Andres Rojas, 44, said expanding driver's licenses makes sense because immigrants without legal status like him still pay taxes and contribute to the local economy.  "We're not a burden like the government says," says Rojas, who came to the U.S. from Mexico 22 years ago. "We work, we're not asking for handouts or anything."  If the driver's license bill passed, Rojas said he would be able to get to work without asking friends for rides. The father of three wouldn't need to take a taxi to take his kids to the doctor or pick them up from school.  "If my daughter takes the bus to school in the morning, that's $15 spent. Plus the $15 for the afternoon ride, that's $30," said Rojas, whose 15-year-old daughter goes to a vocational high school in another town. "It's really difficult to live like that, but if I had a license, I could take her to school sometimes if I have time."
295	adjudicated	3	Dozens of demonstrators gathered at Jackson City Hall Thursday carrying a string of over 1,000 blank pages to represent children who have been separated from their families.  President Donald Trump’s “zero tolerance” immigration policy separates children from their families when they attempt to illegally cross the United States border, including those seeking asylum.  “Indivisible Jackson members were here today to register our disagreement with the Trump administration’s policy of separating families when they apply for asylum here in the United States,” founder Cindy Boyles said.  This is an issue that can bring all Americans together, Boyles explained, because everyone has a family and can imagine what it would be like to desperately leave your home seeking refuge.  A lot of the families coming to the United States are fleeing from war and violence. The “zero tolerance” policy puts parents in an impossible situation, she said. Their children are in danger in their home country, and in the United States when they are taken from their parents.  “We certainly have room in our country and room in our hearts for families that are fleeing,” Boyles said. Spreading it out  Each piece of paper represented “the administrative, bureaucratic coldness of the Trump administration” and how families have been reduced to a form of paper, she said.  While they are not sure exactly how many families have been separated at the borders, one number that is clear is 1,475 kids who have been lost track of by the Department of Health and Human Services.  The immigrant children were placed with sponsor families, but the federal government couldn’t account for 1,475 of them last year.  The reason for stringing each piece of paper out was to show how much it really is. Looking at reams of 500 doesn’t seem like a lot until it’s spread out.  “When you see it represented that way, I think it’s very impactful, and that’s what we wanted,” Boyles said. “We wanted to have some kind of visual representation today of each of these families.” What’s next?  Ideally, they would like to see Congressman David Kustoff (R-District 8) and Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) help pass immigration reform that allows a safe and legal way for families seeking asylum to come to the United States, Boyles said.  “However, we don’t feel that’s going to happen because they haven’t really shown much of an interest in doing that in the past,” she added.  That’s why it’s important for Stephanie Phillips, vice president of the Madison Area Democratic Women, to teach her 19-, 17- and 10-year-old children the importance of voting and knowing who the our representatives are.  More is required than simply registering to vote, Phillips said, it’s about actually voting and letting your voice be heard.  “One day this is all going to be in their hands,” Phillips said. “They’re our future.”  If people don’t teach their children how to recognize and address issues, they will not be informed and engaged voters when they get older.  “It doesn’t matter my race or ethnicity, it doesn’t matter my background or where I come from — families are important and families belong together,” Phillips said.
296	adjudicated	3	As the logistical realities of the 'zero tolerance' border policy separating immigrant children from their parents have become more visible to the American public, evangelical Christians across the country have begun to debate the Bible. Normally among President Trump’s most ardent supporters, white Evangelicals like the Rev. Franklin Graham called the policy “disgraceful,” and other conservative Protestants invoked the Bible to emphasize a core evangelical conviction: that God established the family as the fundamental building block of society. Attorney General Jeff Sessions responded to the administration’s “church friends” by invoking Romans 13, a passage that calls for people to submit to civil authorities, which “God has established.”  The debate spoke to the power and influence that Evangelicals wield in United States politics, and the centrality of Scripture for both personal piety and political action. And most are rejecting the policy, citing other biblical passages. Take Julie Frady, a resident of Wichita, Kan., and a Republican voter who protested the Trump administration’s actions last week with a verse from the prophet Obadiah: “You should NOT stand at the crossroads to cut down fleeing REFUGEES…in the day of their DISTRESS.” Why We Wrote This  For many white Evangelicals, the administration’s zero-tolerance approach to asylum-seekers is putting their support for President Trump in conflict with their reverence for the sanctity of families. New York and Brownsville, Texas  When Julie Frady planned to make a poster to protest the Trump administration’s new “zero tolerance” immigration policy last week, she wanted to find the perfect Bible verse to stand against it, she says, one nobody else would expect.  She’s voted Republican most all of her life, but Ms. Frady, an evangelical Christian who lives in Wichita, Kan., says she’s been “appalled” by the Trump administration’s practice of separating immigrant children from their parents. And she’s been especially appalled, she says, at the administration’s stated purpose to use the practice as a deterrent to other immigrant families thinking of crossing the border illegally.  Since she joined about 60 protesters who marched in front of the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services office in Delano, Kan., Thursday, more and more people across the United States, and from across its often-polarized political spectrum, have begun to express deep moral reservations at the logistical realities of the practice. Why We Wrote This  For many white Evangelicals, the administration’s zero-tolerance approach to asylum-seekers is putting their support for President Trump in conflict with their reverence for the sanctity of families.  Former first lady Laura Bush called the zero-tolerance policy “cruel” and “immoral” on Sunday, and first lady Melania Trump spoke out in favor of a resolution that would reunite families as well. Conservatives in Congress, including House Speaker Paul Ryan and other Trump loyalists, have also voiced their opposition.    But in many ways, it was evangelical Christians, including some of President Trump’s most vocal supporters, who first began to change the course of the national conversation about immigration.  As federal agencies began to put into place the actual protocols of separating, detaining, and then finding suitable care for more than 11,400 immigrant children in custody – including about 2,000 taken from their parents since the Trump administration began its “zero tolerance” policy in April – many Evangelicals began to speak out against it.  Before opposition to the policy began to dominate the national conversation, Frady decided to use a verse from the small Book of Obadiah for her poster. The Hebrew prophet condemns the nation of Edom for closing its borders to Israelite refugees fleeing the Babylonians. Ginni Thomas texts about overturning 2020 vote: Three questions  In multiple colors, she drew: “The LORD declares: You should NOT stand at the crossroads to cut down fleeing REFUGEES … in the day of their DISTRESS.” Courtesy of Julie Frady Julie Frady, center left, an evangelical Christian and lifelong Republican from Wichita, Kan., protests in front of the United States Center for Immigration Services in Delano, Kan., June 14. She says she's "appalled" by the Trump administration's zero tolerance policy, which has resulted in 2,000 children being separated from their parents since it was announced in early May.  It’s in many ways a defining feature of American Evangelical identity: the centrality of Scripture for both personal piety and political action.  “I place an extremely high value on the authority of Scripture, and the place it should hold in our lives,” says Frady, a lay leader who often leads Bible studies at Northwest Free Methodist Church, a small congregation in Wichita, where she also plays tenor sax for morning worship. “I would not knowingly go against something I thought the Bible commanded, no matter how I felt about it.”  Indeed, the Bible, and the voices of Evangelicals around the country, have become a focus of the debate.      The Rev. Franklin Graham, one of the president’s most outspoken evangelical supporters, called the policy “disgraceful” last week. “It's terrible to see families ripped apart, and I don’t support that one bit,” he said.     The Evangelical Immigration Table, which includes pastors from the president’s group of faith advisers, wrote a letter to the president earlier this month, calling for the end to the policy. “As evangelical Christians guided by the Bible, one of our core convictions is that God has established the family as the fundamental building block of society,” members of the coalition wrote. “The traumatic effects of this separation on these young children, which could be devastating and long-lasting, are of utmost concern.”     The Southern Baptist Convention, the largest Protestant denomination in the nation and one of the most politically and theologically conservative, overwhelmingly passed an immigration resolution at its annual meeting last week. The resolution called for immigration reforms that would include a path to legal status for those here illegally – which has long been anathema to most Evangelicals. Such reforms should maintain “the priority of family unity,” the convention proclaimed, and should “[honor] the value and dignity of those seeking a better life for themselves and their families.”  “It’s been a really interesting week or so,” says David Gushee, an professor of Christian ethics at Mercer University in Atlanta, and an Evangelical.  “I don't think we should be using Scripture to defend any of these laws. My question is: How does love demand us to act?” said Sister Phyllis Peters, a Roman Catholic nun, speaking at a roundtable in Brownsville, Texas, Monday afternoon after elected officials visited the Casa Padre and Casa Presidents children's shelters in the city. Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, (D) of Texas, called on Evangelicals, Mr. Graham, and other religious leaders to act, saying, “It will take that kind of spirit that is nonpartisan, religious, social, and humanitarian, and I think that group is much stronger than the federal government at this time. We must stand up to the federal government when it is necessary, and it is necessary now.”  Still, white Evangelicals have been Trump’s most ardent supporters from the start, and as a group they remain the most supportive of his administration’s immigration policies, polls suggest.  And Evangelicals within the Trump administration, including Attorney General Jeff Sessions and press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, invoked the Bible to defend the policy of separating children.  Discussing the “concerns raised by our church friends about separating families,” Mr. Sessions told an audience in Fort Wayne, Ind., last week, “I would cite you to the Apostle Paul and his clear and wise command in Romans 13, to obey the laws of the government because God has ordained them for the purpose of order.”  Later, Ms. Sanders told reporters that “it is very biblical to enforce the law. That is actually repeated a number of times throughout the Bible.”  On the one hand, it speaks to the power and influence that Evangelicals wield in US politics, notes Professor Gushee, given that a political debate over immigration policy became a debate over biblical interpretation. “Only in America, really, and only in America in the 21st century and with a conservative Republican government, would we be having these public biblical arguments about immigration policy.” The fraught history of Romans 13  Yet after Sessions invoked Romans 13, “Let everyone be subject to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except that which God has established,” Christians, including many white Evangelicals, pointed out the long history of this passage, a passage that Gushee says “has been used and abused by tyrants and governments doing injustice for centuries.”  “There are two dominant places in American history when Romans 13 is invoked,” said John Fea, a professor of American history at Messiah College in Pennsylvania, to The Washington Post. “One is during the American Revolution [when] it was invoked by loyalists, those who opposed the American Revolution.”  The other was in the middle of the 19th century, to support defense of the Fugitive Slave Act, Professor Fea continued. “I mean, this is the same argument that Southern slaveholders and the advocates of a Southern way of life made.”  Steven Colbert, a devout Roman Catholic and the host of “The Late Show,” suggested Thursday that the attorney general continue reading the passage on submitting to civil authorities through Romans 13:8-10. “Love thy neighbor as thyself. Love does no harm to a neighbor. Therefore love is the fulfillment of the law.”  Trump has been backtracking from his policy of zero tolerance, falsely asserting that his hands are tied, and that Democrats are the ones responsible for legal requirements that his administration is only enforcing.  But as the Monitor reported in March 2017, the Trump White House has been mulling separating children from their families as a deterrent policy from the first months of the administration. After an outcry from religious leaders, however, the plan was postponed. ‘Prosecutorial discretion’ vs. ‘zero tolerance’  The Obama administration, too, separated immigrant children from their parents, advocates note. And it also greatly expanded a policy of detaining mothers with children in expanded facilities. If a father crossed the border illegally with a child, they would typically be separated.  “The separation of families at the border is not new,” says Christina Fialho, co-executive director of Freedom for Immigrants, who advocates for immigrants being held at places like the private, for-profit Otay Mesa Detention Center in San Diego. “Under the Obama administration, we worked with hundreds of parents who were separated from their family in home raids, including mothers who were still nursing young children.”  The difference, however, was that the Obama administration maintained a policy of “prosecutorial discretion”: the focus of resources on known, dangerous individuals, rather than “zero tolerance,” an adherence to the letter of the law in all instances.  “We realized that we had limited resources in what we could do,” says Kevin Fandl, who worked as a senior counsel for the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) from 2007 to 2013. “We believed we should target those resources toward the most serious threats to the country, those threats being convicted felons or those with a criminal history, terrorists, threats for national security, and recent border crossers, those people with no ties whatsoever to the United States.”  “Everybody else was considered a really low level for enforcement, which encouraged agents to say, ‘OK, if we spot a family with children, we’re probably not going to spend much time with them,’ ” Mr. Fandl continues. Sometimes, if they were picked up, the policy of “catch and release” allowed families with children to enter the country after being given a Notice to Appear order – which, he admits, no one expected them to do.  For critics, however, this created a perverse incentive. “No nation can have the policy that whole classes of people are immune from immigration law or enforcement,” said Stephen Miller, the president’s senior policy adviser, to The New York Times last week. “It was a simple decision by the administration to have a zero tolerance policy for illegal entry, period. The message is that no one is exempt from immigration law.”  And as Sessions put it earlier this month: “If people don’t want to be separated from their children, they should not bring them with them. We’ve got to get this message out.”  As a result, however, the system has been severely strained. Sessions said last week that taking care of unaccompanied minors was costing taxpayers more than $1 billion a year, most now under the care of the US Department of Health and Human Services and its Office of Refugee Resettlement.  Logistically speaking, the system is not prepared to handle the care of thousands of children, says Lisa Koop, associate director of legal services for the National Immigrant Justice Center, who represents a number of immigrant woman whose children were taken from them by the US government.  “They did not know what was going on with their kids, and when we finally managed to figure that one of the kids was being detained in New York, the child’s mother [being held at the Otay Mesa Detention Center] said to me, Where is New York? Is New York far away from here?’ ” says Ms. Koop, who recounts stories of mothers having their children literally torn from their arms. “They just have no concept of where their children are, and what conditions they’re in.”  Gushee says he has been heartened by the biblical responses to Sessions’ use of Romans 13, from those on Twitter to the discussions in the media. biblical passages that have to do with compassion and care for those suffering, and especially for “the least of these” and the most vulnerable in society, he says, “they surfaced when they were needed.”  “But the story is not just the Bible verses,” Gushee continues. “The tears and suffering of human beings whose rights are being violated speaks. That is a language that should be taken seriously. In fact, one might even say this language is revelatory.”  “To see children weeping, to see bereft parents not knowing where their children are, to learn about a man who killed himself in a detention center because he was torn apart over the destruction of his family – these stories speak, too.”  And they have spurred devout evangelical Christians like Frady to action.  “I love America,” says Frady, who wore a purple T-shirt with “Jesus was a Refugee” to the protest near her home in Wichita. “It is my homeland, and I am certainly blessed to be an American.”  “But I am also not naive to its warts,” she continues. “And this is more than a wart.”
297	adjudicated	1	Washington CNN  —   House Democratic Chairman Joe Crowley collapsed during a protest in Washington on the Trump administration’s immigration policy that has been separating parents and children at the southern border.  Crowley, who is from New York, was participating in the protest alongside his Democratic colleagues in the House.  Lauren French, the spokesperson for Crowley, told CNN he is fine and had collapsed due to heat exhaustion.  After Crowley collapsed, he got back up and walked out of the protest.  French tweeted, “Thanks for all the texts and emails checking in. Chairman Crowley is fine - was just a hot day in DC and a long day marching in protest. But on that note, everyone should drink some water!”  Hundreds of activists from around the country joined lawmakers for the demonstration.  Crowley recently wrote to the Department of Homeland Security to demand information on the location of immigrant children who have been separated from their parents. 
298	adjudicated	2	 Democrats Block Street Near White House to Protest Trump Family Separation Policy From left to right in front row: Rep. Joe Crowley, Rep. Luis Gutiérrez, Rep. Judy Chu. (Actor John Cusack and civil rights hero John Lewis are visible behind them.) Tom Williams/CQ Roll Call/Getty Images  A group of legislators and activists that included several Democratic members of the House of Representatives (and John Cusack!) staged a sit-in Wednesday outside the headquarters of the Customs and Border Protection agency in Washington, D.C. before moving to block a street at the edge of the White House security perimeter. The group—whose non-Cusack protesters included Georgia Rep. John Lewis, Washington Rep. Rep. Pramila Jayapal, Illinois Rep. Luis Gutiérrez, Texas Rep. Al Green, California Rep. Judy Chu, and Illinois Rep. Jan Schakowsky—was protesting the Trump administration’s policy of separating undocumented children from their parents when they cross the border.  The administration’s official line on family separation is that it is forced by law to separate adults and children when the adults are being prosecuted criminally for undocumented entry; what this explanation elides is the administration itself is responsible for the recent decision to subject all border crossers to criminal charges rather than civil proceedings in which families could be kept together. There have also been documented reports that border authorities are separating families that have presented themselves at ports of entry to apply for asylum, which is a legal practice. Advertisement  Per Vox’s Ella Nilsen, the organizers of the protest had expected to be arrested during the sit-in at CBP’s offices; when that didn’t happen, possibly because CBP didn’t want to give them the satisfaction of an arrest photo op, they moved to block traffic, but didn’t get arrested there either. Said Illinois’ Gutiérrez (in Spanish; apologies if my translation is inelegant): “They abuse women and children at the border who have no protection, but here in the light of day, in front of the public, they don’t dare arrest those of us who are clearly violating the law.” Gutiérrez says further protests are planned.
299	adjudicated	3	On July 12 as Indivisible Jackson protested the inhumane conditions of detention centers housing migrant children and families, the Madison County Sheriff’s Office and Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers were arresting undocumented individuals as an organized operation.  Now, Indivisible Jackson — a local group working to advance progressive values and resist President Donald Trump’s agenda — will turn the national vigil into a weekly protest.  But, the group said it was forced to leave Friday after mall security was called.   Two weeks ago, the group protested the conditions of detention centers during Lights for Liberty: A Vigil to End Concentration Camps, which held vigils in five continents and almost 600 locations.  Lights for Liberty protests around the country against ICE migrant actions  “When we thought about it — the people who are trying to migrate here, seeking legal asylum — the situation hasn’t changed,” Cindy Boyles, the group’s organizer, said. “They’re still being held in horrible conditions.  “We want to continue to say this is something that we’re concerned about. It’s not just a one-time thing. We want to come out and share that we’re still not okay with this.”  When they protested, the group held signs and candles as they lined the sidewalk along N. Highland Ave. in front of Old Hickory Mall.  Down the same road that night, ICE agents were contacted to help or assist local police.   That night, there were nine assists — three of which were ICE assists for deportation, and two of which are listed simply as ICE assists, according to incident reports and MCSO Sheriff John Mehr. ICE officials were called in some cases for translations even though the sheriff’s office has a Spanish-speaking officer and a helpline.   “Migrants, then, were being stopped by the sheriff’s office and being taken into custody by ICE,” Boyles said.  She said while the group thinks asylum-seeking and migration should be done legally, it should also be done fairly.  The group met again along N. Highland Ave. in front of the mall because it's visible with a lot of traffic and safe with a public sidewalk Friday, and plans to do the same in the Fridays to come.   “Congress has not done their job to make a path for people to become citizens,” Boyles said Friday morning. “There’s horrible conditions in these other countries, forcing them to come here. They’re saying its better to come to the United States and face this than it is to stay where they’re at.  “They’re trying to do the best thing for their children, which we’d all do.”  She said the policy and the administration’s cruelty need to change, which led to the choice for a weekly protest.  The protests will continue until the Trump administration reverses its stance and starts treating people in a humane, respectful way, Boyles said. What happened Friday  Boyles said the group of 15 were forced to leave after mall security called the police.   "The mall security guy said we were taking up their parking spaces," she said. "We probably had 10 cars there, and the parking lot, otherwise, was pretty empty."   She said Jackson Police Department officers responded and were nice, saying "we had every right to be on the public sidewalk, but the mall had control over their parking lot."  The group will still protest at the same spot next Friday.  A small but loud group  Even though there were only a little more than 20 protesters on July 12, they were noticed.   After the first protest, new members joined. Many of those newcomers didn’t know about the group until two Fridays ago.  “What we’re hoping is that over time as people hear about it, they’ll join with us, but also that the group of 20 will grow bigger,” she said. “Even if it stays 20 (in protests) or even if it goes to two, the thing is that we’re doing something.  “We’re speaking for the almost 400 people that belong to Indivisible Jackson and that just adds to the national voice. Even though we may be a small group, we’re a loud group.” Joining Indivisible Jackson  There is a public page with information about Indivisible Jackson with information.  From the public page, people can request to join a private page as well. The private group is a space for members to exchange ideas without debates or arguments.  “Obviously, what we’re hoping is that this will grow, and we’ll have more and more people who hear about it and show their support for what’s going on,” Boyles said. “Even if they just come out and watch, that’s something, saying this is not how we are. We’re better than this.”
300	adjudicated	3	A group of nearly a dozen activists campaigning for driver's licenses for immigrants, regardless of their legal status, made their way through the Bayshore area Thursday as part of their 300-mile trek across the Garden State.  They were seen chanting outside the Motor Vehicle Commission office in Hazlet, holding a large white banner that says "driver's licenses for all." The group walked along Route 35 through Matawan, Middletown and Red Bank before arriving at a small rally at St. Thomas Episcopal Church on Sunset Avenue in Red Bank.   More: POLL: Should Legislature authorize financial aid for unauthorized immigrants?  More: Driver's licenses for undocumented?: Readers react  "As was expected, a lot of people greeted us with good vibes, giving us thumbs up or honking the horn," said Osvaldo Rodriguez, 27, a recipient of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program who lives in Red Bank.  But Rodriguez, who has walked part time, says the activists have encountered hostility on this leg of their journey. Some motorists held up the middle finger yelling "build the wall," and two pulled over to criticize the group, participants said.  The backlash, however, hasn't deterred the activists from continuing their journey. They plan to get to Trenton by June 11.   The trek, which started May 31 in New Brunswick, was organized by the national immigrant rights coalition Movimiento Cosecha, or "the Harvest Movement" in English. Several members, including Rodriguez, have lived in New Jersey.  More: NJ immigrant families prepare to be split up under Trump  More: Military base calls immigration agents on pizza delivery man  Participants say they are walking to support the New Jersey Safe and Responsible Driver Act, which Assemblywoman Annette Quijano, D-Union, reintroduced in January. The legislation proposes expanding driving privileges to people who cannot meet the requirements of the Motor Vehicle Commission's Six-Point ID verification program, including undocumented immigrants, homeless people and domestic violence victims.  While Gov. Phil Murphy said he would support the bill, members of Movimiento Cosecha said Thursday they hear the bill may not move forward until October.  "It's time the politicians fulfill the promises they've been making us for 15 years because undocumented people deserve to drive in this state," Catalina Santiago said Thursday in Spanish during a Facebook Live video. Santiago, a Florida resident, is working on the New Jersey licenses campaign for Movimiento Cosecha.  More: Lakewood cleaners still scrub on their knees, forgo lunch breaks, survey says  More: Shoddy legal services still short NJ immigrants, advocates say. Here's how to avoid it  But some critics say those promises shouldn't be kept at all. Opponents of illegal immigration along the Shore say undocumented immigrants shouldn't be rewarded for living here without legal status.  State Sen. Christopher J. Connors, Assembly Brian E. Rumpf and Assemlywoman DiAnne C. Gove, R-Ocean, criticized the legislation in a joint statement in May.  “Essential programs and services for legal residents are on the chopping block all while the needs of illegal aliens continue to be prioritized ... residents face the prospect of waiting longer in the MVC line while illegal aliens are applying for a driver’s license with limited identification documents, such as the ones legal residents are required to produce," they said in the statement.  The legislators also expressed security concerns and called the legislation "irresponsible."  Andres Rojas, 44, said expanding driver's licenses makes sense because immigrants without legal status like him still pay taxes and contribute to the local economy.  "We're not a burden like the government says," says Rojas, who came to the U.S. from Mexico 22 years ago. "We work, we're not asking for handouts or anything."  If the driver's license bill passed, Rojas said he would be able to get to work without asking friends for rides. The father of three wouldn't need to take a taxi to take his kids to the doctor or pick them up from school.  "If my daughter takes the bus to school in the morning, that's $15 spent. Plus the $15 for the afternoon ride, that's $30," said Rojas, whose 15-year-old daughter goes to a vocational high school in another town. "It's really difficult to live like that, but if I had a license, I could take her to school sometimes if I have time." 